This document contains all ABL Error Handling documentation.


ABL Error Handling - Block Flow of Control and Condition Directives
The ON phrase is one of the ABL constructs used for altering the default error
handling for basic blocks. For information on default error (condition) handling see
Default Condition Handling. There is a variation of the ON
phrase to control each of the ABL conditions:

 ON ERROR …
 ON STOP …
 ON QUIT …
 ON ENDKEY …

The ON phrase can be used on the following blocks:

There can be multiple ON phrases on the same block, separated by white
space. For example:

You cannot modify the error action on other blocks using the ON phrase.
This includes:

 Procedures (top-level or internal)
 User-defined methods
 User-defined property getter/setter blocks
 Constructors/destructors
 User-defined functions
 UI trigger blocks
 Database triggers (ON block with CREATE,
  DELETE, WRITE, or ASSIGN
  event)

However, there is a way to change the default error handling for most of these
blocks, at a block or routine level. This is described in the section on Use UNDO, THROW.

BlocksthatsupportCATCHblocks

ABL Error Handling - Blocks that support CATCH blocks
The use of CATCH blocks is supported for all
blocks that have error handling capabilities. CATCH cannot be
used in a simple DO or DO
WHILE block (one with no options), since these do not have implicit error handling;
the compiler will not allow it. DO blocks must have an
explicit TRANSACTION, ON ERROR
UNDO, or ON STOP directive, in order to have a
CATCH block.

One or more CATCH blocks are positioned at the
end of the associated block. If a FINALLY block
is also used, the CATCH block comes before the FINALLY block.
This is the syntax for an associated block using end blocks:

Syntax

CATCHBlocks

ABL Error Handling - CATCH Blocks
ABL provides CATCH blocks to enable you to trap
an error or stop object and write code to handle the object. This set of topics discuss
CATCH block syntax, usage, error handling precedence, UNDO scope, and nested CATCH
blocks.

 Introduction to CATCH blocks
 CATCH block syntax and usage
 Blocks that support CATCH blocks
 Precedence of CATCH blocks
 UNDO scope and relationship to a CATCH block
 CATCH blocks within CATCH blocks

CATCHblocksyntaxandusage

ABL Error Handling - CATCH block syntax and usage
Syntax

object-variable: The variable name that references the object caught by this block.
    Typically, you do not define the object-variable ahead of time with
    the DEFINE VARIABLE statement. The AVM recognizes a new variable name
    on the CATCH statement as a new object-variable
    definition within the current scope. Each CATCH in an associated
    block must have a unique object-variable. You can reuse an
    object-variable name in a different associated block, if its type
    is the same as the previous use. For all blocks with their own variable scope, such as
    object methods or internal procedures, a CATCH statement inside that
    context may reuse the same variable name as a CATCH statement outside
    of that context even if the type is different.

[ CLASS ] condition-class: Optionally, you can provide the CLASS keyword.

    The code within a CATCH block only
    executes if a condition of type condition-class (or
    a subtype) is raised within the body of the associated block. When the condition is
    raised, if there is an active transaction for the associated block, the transaction is
    undone before the AVM begins executing the statements within the CATCH block. For more information, see the reference
    entries for the DEFINE VARIABLE statement and the TRANSACTION option in the DO statement in
    the ABL Reference.

Examples

Example 1

In the following example, the CATCH block
handles any ABL system error:

Example 2

The following example illustrates reuse of the
object-variable name:

Example 3

An associated block may have multiple CATCH blocks, each of which handles a different error class. If an error type
satisfies multiple CATCH statements, the AVM executes the
code in the first CATCH block that is compatible with the
error type. It does not execute multiple CATCH blocks.
Therefore, if multiple CATCH blocks are specified, the more
specialized error classes should come first, as shown:

Example 4

The compiler issues a warning message if a block contains a CATCH block that is not reachable. The following code produces a
warning, since the CATCH of eMyAppError can never be reached:

CATCHblockswithinCATCHblocks

ABL Error Handling - CATCH blocks within CATCH blocks
A CATCH block within a CATCH block only handles errors raised within the CATCH block. To prevent infinite looping, any UNDO, THROW statement within the top-level CATCH block, or any CATCH block
nested within it, immediately throws the error to the block that encloses the associated
block of the top-level CATCH block. For example:

In this example, notice the UNDO, THROW
statement within the nested CATCH block. If we get here,
the AVM passes control to the block enclosing the associated block and raises ERROR there. In this case, the DO block is the associated block and the FOR
EACH is the block enclosing the DO block. The
CATCH anyError block on the FOR
EACH block then handles the error.

DefaultConditionHandling

ABL Error Handling - Default Condition Handling
The default for handling conditions in ABL is simple. It is scoped to blocks. Several things
happen when an error occurs, when not explicitly handled by some ABL construct such as
NO-ERROR or CATCH:
If there is any error message associated with the condition, it is displayed
   to the current output device. For an application server, the message is written to
   the application server log.
The current block is undone. If the condition occurred in an iterating block, it is
   only the current block iteration that is undone.
Any statements following the line where the condition occurred are not
   executed. Program flow continues based on the default branching option for the block
   type.

   Note: If there is a FINALLY
   block associated with the current block, it still runs even though an ERROR or STOP
   condition occurred. For more information see FINALLY Blocks.
For a STOP condition, STOP is raised again in the
   outer block, if there is one, otherwise it is raised in the caller. From there the
   same actions (1-4) are taken with respect to the new current block.

IntroductiontoCATCHblocks

ABL Error Handling - Introduction to CATCH blocks
A CATCH block can be referred to as an end block because it defines end-of-block processing for the
block that encloses it. End blocks are always part of another block called the associated block. End blocks must appear in the associated
block after the last executable statement and before the END statement. The other type of end block is the FINALLY block that is discussed in later topics.

The CATCH statement defines the start of an end
block that only executes if a condition is raised in its associated block, and the type
of condition raised is the type specified in the CATCH
statement (or a subtype of that type). For example:

In this example:

 The THROW directive tells the AVM to propagate any
  unhandled errors to the procedure (main) block, since it
  is the enclosing block of the DO TRANSACTION block.
  Notice there is a CATCH block waiting to handle any
  Progress.Lang.AppError object that may be
  raised from the RUN statement. If a Progress.Lang.AppError object is raised, the CATCH block handles the error and it is not passed to
  the procedure block.
 When running the code, if the FIND statement fails, and
  there is no error handler present for this error type, it raises a Progress.Lang.SysError. Since Progress.Lang.SysError is not handled, the AVM throws the error up the
  call stack to the procedure block, due to the UNDO, THROW directive
  of the TRANSACTION block. The AVM finds a compatible CATCH block on the procedure block and then executes
  the code in the CATCH block.
 If you delete the CATCH block on the procedure
  block and run the example code, the AVM propagates the Progress.Lang.SysError object to the main block as before. Since you
  no longer have an appropriate error handler in the main block, the AVM now executes
  the default error handling behavior, which is to display the system error message to
  the default output device.

The CATCH block executes once for each iteration of its associated block
that raises a compatible error. A block can have multiple CATCH blocks,
and all must come at the end of the associated block.

There can only be one CATCH block for each
specific condition type in a block. A CATCH block also
handles objects for its subtypes, so it is possible there can be more than one CATCH block that is compatible with a particular condition.
In this case, the AVM executes the first CATCH block it
encounters that is compatible. For this reason, CATCH
blocks should be arranged from the most specific type to the most general. For example,
if you had different error handling code for Progress.Lang.SysError objects and Progress.Lang.SoapFaultError objects, put the CATCH block for SoapFaultError objects
first. Otherwise, since SoapFaultError objects are a
subtype of SysError, a CATCH block for SysError that appears
first would handle the SoapFaultError object.


ABL Error Handling - Introduction to Error and Condition Handling
Run-time occurrences that interrupt the usual flow of a software
application are called conditions, errors, or exceptions. Condition handling, error handling, and
exception handling are industry terms, sometimes used interchangeably,
for programming designed to respond to those run-time interruptions. Since most
condition handling in ABL involves the ERROR condition,
error handling has become a common synonym for condition handling and is used frequently in the OpenEdge
documentation set.

PrecedenceofCATCHblocks

ABL Error Handling - Precedence of CATCH blocks
In general, the AVM performs error handling using this precedence, from
highest to lowest. The AVM only abides by one of these when a condition is raised:

 Statement NO-ERROR option
 CATCH block
 Block’s ON phrase (explicit or
  implicit)

Using NO-ERROR on a statement prevents a CATCH block
from running if the statement raises a condition.

Otherwise a CATCH block takes precedence over any flow of control directive on
the block, for example, LEAVE or THROW. See sections
on Default Condition Handling and Block Flow of Control and Condition Directives, for more
information on block condition directives.

If there are CATCH blocks, but none of them
are compatible with the type of condition that occurs, then the ON phrase for the block takes effect. This could be an explicit or
implicit (default) phrase for the block type, such as ON
ERROR or ON STOP. It can be useful to have
both an explicit ON phrase for the associated block and
a CATCH on the same associated block. You might want to
CATCH certain error types and handle them directly,
and have all other condition types handled by the ON
phrase of the associated block.

RETURNERROR

ABL Error Handling - RETURN ERROR
The RETURN ERROR statement is another way of raising an
ERROR condition. The full syntax of the RETURN
statement is shown below, though here we are only discussing the RETURN
ERROR options.

You can use the ERROR option in a procedure, database trigger block,
class-based method, constructor, or property accessor. However, you cannot use it in a
user-interface trigger block or destructor to raise ERROR outside of
that block. This results in a compiler error. More information about conditions in
destructors are discussed in Throw a condition out of a destructor. You also cannot use
RETURN ERROR in a user-defined function to raise
ERROR outside of that block. This is explained in more detail in
Raise ERROR to the caller of a user-defined function.

Note that if an error is returned from any procedure, method, or user-defined
function, the values of any OUTPUT or INPUT-OUTPUT parameters are not returned to the
caller.

Syntax

error-return-value: A character expression.

error-object-expression: Any expression that results in an instance of an error or stop object.

Aside from being a stand-alone statement, the RETURN phrase, with
the same options, is also available on the following language elements:

 ON ENDKEY phrase
 ON ERROR phrase
 ON QUIT phrase
 ON STOP phrase
 UNDO statement

Regardless of the options, when RETURN
ERROR executes, execution returns to the caller of the current
procedure, method, constructor, or property accessor, and ERROR is raised in the caller. If it occurs in a database trigger,
ERROR is raised on the statement that caused
the database event. Because the AVM returns before raising error, the block
containing the RETURN statement or phrase is not
undone. The behavior in the caller is then dictated by that block’s error-handling
capabilities (error directive or CATCH block).

Note: The remainder of this section does not apply to user-defined functions.

The AVM does the following when the RETURN ERROR statement
executes:

 If neither an error-return-value nor an
  error-object-expression is supplied, the AVM creates an
  instance of Progress.Lang.AppError with no error message set
  and the ReturnValue property set to the empty string. The value
  for the RETURN-VALUE built-in function is also set to the empty
  string.
 If an error-return-value expression is supplied, the AVM
  creates the AppError object and sets its
  ReturnValue property. No error message is set in the
  object. It also sets the value for the RETURN-VALUE built-in
  function.
 If an instance of an error object is supplied, the AVM does not create a new
  instance.
 In all cases, the AVM returns and behaves as if this object was thrown on
  the invoking statement.

In the caller, if NO-ERROR is used on the invoking statement, any
error messages in the object are transferred to the ERROR-STATUS
system handle, ERROR-STATUS:ERROR is set to TRUE,
and the error object instance is discarded. Any custom information in the error
object is lost.

Otherwise (if NO-ERROR is not used on the invoking
statement) the error object is handled in the usual way. If there is a relevant
CATCH block, the error is caught. Otherwise the block’s error
directive takes effect. If default error handling is in place, any error message is
displayed to the output device. But if there is no error message stored in the
object, no display is made.

Example

The following example shows how RETURN ERROR is used to
return a custom AppError to a caller using
NO-ERROR:

RaiseConditions

ABL Error Handling - Raise Conditions
When a system condition is encountered during program execution, the AVM
automatically raises an ERROR or STOP condition. However, there are also programmatic ways to raise a
condition. This set of topics discuss ABL constructs for raising conditions
programmatically.

 Raise errors with UNDO, THROW
 RETURN ERROR
 Raise ERROR to the caller of a user-defined function
 Throw a condition out of a destructor
 Raise the QUIT condition
 Raise the STOP condition
 Raise a timed STOP condition
 Throw error and stop objects from an application server to an ABL client


ABL Error Handling - Raise ERROR to the caller of a user-defined function
The user-defined function, defined by the FUNCTION statement, returns a value of a specific data type as its primary
function. The RETURN statement is used in the function
body to specify what value to return to the caller. The RETURN
ERROR statement is not used in the same way as it is in other blocks since
it does not raise ERROR in the caller. Instead, it sets
the target variable of the function to the Unknown value (?). Therefore, you can perform error checking on a function call by
checking for the Unknown value (?). This technique only
works if the target variable has a value other than the Unknown value (?) before the function is called.

The following code demonstrates this behavior:

If you specify a string (RETURN ERROR), the string is not seen as a RETURN-VALUE, but as the value being returned from the function.
Therefore, if the function is defined to return a type other than CHARACTER, you get a
compiler error (or a runtime error if the expression type is indeterminate at compile
time). If the function is defined to return a CHARACTER, the code runs, but RETURN-VALUE is not set. The specified string is lost.

Structured error handling provides a more consistent and robust way to raise
ERROR from user-defined functions using the UNDO,
THROW statement rather than RETURN ERROR. There are two
ways to do this:

 Syntactically, you cannot use an ON ERROR phrase on a
  FUNCTION definition. Therefore, use the ROUTINE-LEVEL
  ON ERROR UNDO, THROW (or BLOCK-LEVEL ON ERROR UNDO,
  THROW) statement to set that directive on the function. Then any
  unexpected error, or explicitly thrown application errors, can be thrown back to the
  caller. Just be aware that this affects all routines or blocks in the file.
 Add a CATCH block to the function. With a
  CATCH block, any error that is caught can be thrown out of the
  function using the UNDO, THROW statement from
  within the CATCH block. If you only want to throw
  application errors back to the caller but handle system errors locally, or vice
  versa, you can use multiple CATCH blocks to
  accomplish this. Using multiple CATCH blocks is shown in the
  example below. To learn more, see CATCH Blocks.

RaiseatimedSTOPcondition

ABL Error Handling - Raise a timed STOP condition
The STOP-AFTER phrase specifies a
time-out value for a DO, FOR,
or REPEAT block. This is the syntax in the context of a
DO block:

Syntax

The integer expression specifies the number of
seconds each iteration of a block has until a time-out occurs. If a time-out occurs, the AVM
raises the STOP condition.

This STOP condition can be handled like
other STOP conditions (for example, by using an ON STOP phrase), or it can be specifically handled by using a
CATCH block for a Progress.Lang.StopAfter object. Specifically handling the condition is the
recommended approach since it is the only way to know that the STOP condition was indeed raised by the STOP-AFTER and not by some other unexpected circumstance occurring within the
block.

For more information on using this feature, see the STOP-AFTER phrase on the DO, FOR, or REPEAT statements in the
ABL Reference.

RaiseerrorswithUNDOCOMMATHROW

ABL Error Handling - Raise errors with UNDO, THROW
During the execution flow, you may determine that there is an invalid
condition (for example, when validating input) and want to communicate that to other
parts of the program or to the user. To do this, you create an application error
object and raise the ERROR condition by using the
UNDO, THROW statement.

In addition, you can provide local CATCH blocks that provide handling for specific error numbers and
throw any other condition to an outer or calling block to be handled by more generic
error-handling code. The same UNDO, THROW statement
can be used in a CATCH block to accomplish
this.

Syntax

error-object-expression: Any expression that results in an instance of an error or
    stop object.

When this statement is executed, it undoes the current block (the
innermost block with error-handling capabilities) and raises ERROR or STOP on the statement.
ERROR is raised if it is an error object and
STOP is raised for any of the stop objects
(which includes Progress.Lang.StopError). It is
then up to the block directives to determine how the error is handled, as with any
other condition.

Examples

In each of the following examples, ERROR is raised on the UNDO, THROW
statement. If there are any updates in the block that require undoing, that is
performed, though in these examples there are not. The comment in each code example
describes what happens. Assume the current output device is the screen:

Example 1

This example demonstrates the use of UNDO, THROW
within a block. Note that this is not the same as using the ON ERROR UNDO, THROW directive on that block. With the UNDO, THROW statement, the condition is simply raised
on the current statement.

Example 2

With the ON ERROR UNDO, THROW
directive, the condition, which was already raised within the context of that block,
is thrown to the outer block (or caller if there is no outer block).

If you use the DEBUG-ALERT feature (SESSION:DEBUG-ALERT = yes, or startup parameter -debugalert) for each of the above two examples, the
difference is clearer. For the first example, if you hit the Help button on the alert box when the error message
is displayed, it shows line 3 (the UNDO, THROW
statement). In the second example, it shows line 5 (the END statement).

Example 3

This example demonstrates what happens when the UNDO, THROW statement occurs within a CATCH block. Here the condition is raised and thrown to
the outer block of the associated block (or the caller if there is no outer block).
This happens because CATCH blocks have the UNDO, THROW flow-of-control directive by default.

RaisetheQUITcondition

ABL Error Handling - Raise the QUIT condition
Syntax

The QUIT statement raises the QUIT condition.

When the QUIT condition occurs, the AVM performs these steps by
default:
Commits the current transaction.
Exits the ABL session.
For a client, if the application was started from the Procedure Editor
   or Progress Developer Studio for OpenEdge, the AVM returns to that tool; otherwise it
   returns to the operating system. If running in an application server, the AVM returns to
   the client session that called it.

If there is an ON QUIT phrase on the
current block, that directive overrides the default behavior.

RaisetheSTOPcondition

ABL Error Handling - Raise the STOP condition
The STOP statement allows you to raise the
STOP condition.

Syntax

The STOP condition can be handled by the
following constructs, in this order of precedence:

 An appropriate CATCH block
 An ON STOP phrase
 Default stop handling


ABL Error Handling - Throw a condition out of a destructor
It is not possible to throw either an ERROR or
STOP condition out of a class destructor. The
destructor of a class can run at unexpected times, at the end of any statement, or at an
END block where variables go out of scope.
Therefore, you would not be able to effectively write code to handle any condition that
was thrown out of the destructor block. Because of this, the AVM forces the condition to
be handled within the block itself. It can be handled in all the usual ways, such as
using an ON phrase (implicit or explicit) or by using a
CATCH block.

Additionally, note that for destructors:

 Using ROUTINE-LEVEL ON ERROR UNDO, THROW or BLOCK-LEVEL ON
  ERROR UNDO, THROW, does not affect the destructor block of a
  class.
 Using the UNDO, THROW statement in the CATCH or
  FINALLY block of a destructor results in a compiler error
  because UNDO, THROW, in this context, would throw the condition out
  of the destructor block, which is not allowed. You can, however, use UNDO,
  THROW in the body of the destructor itself. This raises the condition
  within the context of the block and it can be handled either by default error
  handling or by a local CATCH block.
 Using RETURN ERROR in the body of a destructor generates a compiler
  error.
• Unhandled STOP conditions normally propagate
  up by default. However this does not occur if the STOP condition is
  initiated within the destructor block. Instead, any error message is displayed to
  the current output device and the condition is cleared.


ABL Error Handling - UNDO scope and relationship to a CATCH block
Because the CATCH block only executes when ERROR or
STOP is raised in the associated block, any transaction within the
associated block is already undone. In other words, changes made within the associated
block to persistent data, undo variables, and undo temp-table fields have been
discarded. In addition, buffers scoped to the associated block of the
CATCH block are not available when the CATCH block
executes. This is because either the buffer was undone and released, or committed and
released. If a buffer referenced in a CATCH block is referenced outside
of the associated block, then the scope of that buffer is the smallest enclosing block
outside of the associated block that encompasses all references to the buffer.
Therefore, these buffers are available to the CATCH block.

The CATCH block itself is an undoable
block with implicit ON ERROR UNDO, THROW error
handling. You cannot explicitly override the ON ERROR
directive for a CATCH block.

A statement that raises ERROR or STOP within a CATCH block
causes the following to occur, unless the condition is handled within the block:
UNDO the CATCH block if it contains a transaction.
LEAVE the associated block.
THROW the condition to the block enclosing the
   associated block, or to the caller if there is no outer block.

The following example demonstrates these availability rules: