EXTENT function

This function returns the size (extent) of an array field or variable as an
INTEGER value. More specifically, it returns:

 The number of elements for a field or variable defined as a determinate
  array
 The Unknown value (?) for a variable
  defined as an indeterminate array with no size
 The size that has been set for a variable defined as an indeterminate
  array
 Zero for a field or variable that is not an array

Note: The EXTENT function corresponds to the EXTENT
attribute.

Syntax

array: Any array field or variable.

Example

In
the following example, the EXTENT function is used to set the limit
of a DO loop that cycles through all elements of an array:

r-arrext.p

See also

DEFINE VARIABLE statement, ENTRY function, EXTENT attribute, EXTENT statement, VAR statement




EXTENT statement

Sets the number of elements for an indeterminate array. An indeterminate
array must have the extent size set before elements can be assigned into it. An
indeterminate array can also be resized using the EXTENT statement. The
EXTENT statement cannot be used to set or modify the
size of a determinate array.

Syntax

array: An expression that results in an ABL array.

expression: An INTEGER expression that evaluates to the extent value assigned to
    the array variable or parameter. The extent value can be any number between 1 and 28000,
    inclusive.

NO-ERROR: The NO-ERROR option is used to prevent the statement from raising ERROR and displaying error messages.

Note: Compound assignment operators (+=, -=, =, /=)
can be used with the EXTENT statement. For more
information, see += Addition assignment operator, -= Subtraction assignment operator, \= Multiplication assignment operator, and /= Division assignment operator.

Example

The following example defines an indeterminate array variable. The size of
the array variable is set multiple times using the EXTENT
statement:

The following example uses the += assignment operator to add 10 elements to an indeterminate
array:

Notes

 You can call the EXTENT statement to
  resize an indeterminate array. If expression is set to
  a value that is larger than the original array, the existing elements are preserved, and
  the additional elements are initialized to the default value for the datatype. If expression is set to a smaller value, the data is truncated
  (elements in the array beyond the new size are lost).
 You can also use the EXTENT statement
  to set the size of an indeterminate array back to its initial state (with no size) by
  specifying the Unknown value (?) in expression.
• If you call the EXTENT statement
  attempting to set the extent size of a determinate array variable or parameter, the AVM
  generates a compiler error.

See also

DEFINE PARAMETER statement, DEFINE VARIABLE statement, EXTENT attribute, EXTENT function, NO-ERROR option, Parameter definition syntax, VAR statement




