CALL statement

Transfers control to a dispatch routine (PRODSP)
that then calls a C function. You write the C function using ABL
Host Language Call (HLC) interface.

ABL HLC consists of a
collection of C functions that:

 Obtain data from ABL
  shared variables and buffers
 Set data in ABL shared variables and buffers
 Control screen modes
 Provide ABL-like messages in the message area at the bottom
  of the screen

Using HLC, you can extend ABL with your
own C functions.

Syntax

routine-identifier: The name the PRODSP dispatch routine used to identify the C
    function to call.

argument: One or more arguments that you want to pass to the C function.

See also

RUN statement




CASE statement

Provides a multi-branch decision based on the
value of a single expression.

Syntax

expression: The expression that determines which branch of code to execute. The expression parameter
    can be any valid ABL expression. It can include comparisons, logical
    operations, and parentheses.

WHEN value[ OR WHEN value]... THEN: Each value is an expression that evaluates
    to a possible value for expression. If value matches
    the current value of expression, then the associated
    block or statement executes.

OTHERWISE: Introduces a block or statement to execute when the value of expression does not match any value in any of the WHEN clauses.

block: A DO, FOR, or
    REPEAT block. If you do not use a block, then you can only use a
    single statement for the WHEN or OTHERWISE
    clause.

statement: A single ABL statement. If you want to use more than one statement,
    you must enclose them in a DO, FOR, or
    REPEAT block.

END [ CASE ]: Indicates the end of the CASE statement. You can
    include the CASE keyword here to improve readability; it has no effect
    on the code.

Example

The following fragment shows a simple example of a CASE
statement:

r-case.p

Notes

 Each value must
  have the same data type as expression. If the
  data types do not match, the compiler reports an error.
 Both value and expression can be enums, including
  ABL and.NET enums, but each value must be the same enum type as
  expression.
 You can specify any number of WHEN clauses within the
  CASE statement.
 You can specify only one OTHERWISE clause for a
  CASE statement. If you use the OTHERWISE clause, it
  must be the last branch in the statement.
 When a CASE statement is executed, the AVM evaluates
  expression and evaluates each value for each branch in order of occurrence until it finds
  the first value that satisfies the condition. At that
  point the AVM executes that branch and does not evaluate any other value for that branch or any other branches. If no matching
  value is found, then the OTHERWISE
  branch is executed, if given. If the OTHERWISE branch is not given and no
  matching value is found, then no branch of the
  CASE statement is executed and execution continues with the statement
  after the CASE statement.
 After a branch of the CASE statement is executed, the
  AVM leaves the CASE statement and execution continues with the statement
  following the CASE statement.
• If a LEAVE statement is executed within any branch of
  a CASE statement, the AVM leaves the closest block (other than a
  DO block) that encloses the CASE statement.




CAST function

Returns a new object reference to the same class instance as an existing object reference,
but with a different data type. This different data type is cast from the object type of the
original object reference according to another specified object type. The two object types
must be related, where one is a class type and the other is a subclass of that class type or
where one is an interface type and the other is a class that implements the interface of
that type.

When you cast an object reference, ABL treats it as if it referenced an instance of the
object type to which it is cast. The underlying class hierarchy of the object instance does
not change.

Syntax

object-reference: An object reference defined with the object type to be cast.

object-type-name: Specifies the type name of an ABL or.NET class or interface type to which the object
    reference is cast. This object type must be a class type in a class hierarchy that
    includes or implements the object-reference data type or it must be
    an interface type that the object-reference data type implements.
    Specify the object type name using the syntax described in the Type-name syntax reference entry. With an appropriate USING statement, you can also specify an unqualified class or
    interface name alone.

Notes

 You typically cast an object reference down a class hierarchy—that is, from a super
  class to a derived class within a class hierarchy, or from an interface to a class that
  implements that interface. However, you do not always need to explicitly cast an object
  reference. Because a derived class contains all the super classes in its inherited class
  hierarchy, ABL implicitly casts any object reference up within its class hierarchy, and
  because a class that implements an interface implements all of the methods specified for
  the interface, ABL implicitly casts any object reference from an implementing class to any
  interface that the class implements.
 At compile time, ABL verifies that the specified object type is within the class
  hierarchy of the specified object reference. At run time, the AVM checks the validity of
  the cast operation. Therefore, if you access a class member on the cast object reference
  that exists for the cast data type, but the referenced object at run time does not
  actually define the accessed class member, the AVM raises ERROR at run time.
 A.NET generic type can be part of a cast.
  For example, you can cast from a System.Object to a
  System.Collections.Generic.List, because
  all.NET classes, including generic classes, derive from the.NET root class. However,
  note that you cannot cast from a System.Collections.Generic.List to a System.Collections.Generic.List. You cannot
  assign a List reference to an object
  reference defined as a List, because, even
  though the type parameters are compatible, the two objects as a whole are not equivalent
  and have no inheritance relationship. Therefore, a cast between these two objects cannot
  work either. For more information on.NET generic types, see the Data types reference entry.
 You can also use the DYNAMIC-CAST function to cast object references to object
  types determined at run time. This is especially useful in object-oriented applications
  that conform to the OpenEdge Reference Architecture (OERA). For more information on the
  OERA, see Progress Communities:.
 You can use the CAST function to cast a parameter in a parameter list for a method using
  the following syntax:

 You can use the CAST function to cast a temp-table field, which is defined as a
  Progress.Lang.Object, to use as an object of another class type. For
  example:

  You can now use the object reference in RCustObj to invoke
  methods in the acme.myObjs.CustObj class.
• You can use the CAST function to cast an object reference to a subclass and invoke a
  method defined in that subclass using the following syntax:

  You can also use this syntax to invoke a method on a class that implements the
  referenced interface from which you cast the specified class.

See also

DYNAMIC-CAST function, Type-name syntax, USING statement




CATCH statement

Defines a CATCH block, which allows you
to trap an error or stop object and write code to handle it.

A CATCH block can be referred to as an
end block because it defines end-of-block processing for the
block that encloses it. End blocks are always part of another block called the associated block. End blocks must appear in the associated block
after the last executable statement and before the END
statement. The other type of end block is the FINALLY
block.

The CATCH statement defines the start of
an end block that only executes if a condition is raised in its associated block and the
object type of the condition raised matches the class specified in the CATCH statement (or a subclass of that class). The CATCH block thus executes when an object of the specified error
or stop type is caught by the CATCH statement, at which point the object can then be handled in the CATCH block.

When the condition is raised, if there is an active transaction for the
associated block, the transaction is undone before the AVM begins executing the statements
within the CATCH block.

The CATCH block executes once for each iteration of its
associated block that raises a compatible error. A block can have multiple CATCH blocks, and all must come at the end of the associated
block.

There can only be one CATCH block for each
specific condition type in a block. However, the block also handles objects for its
subtypes. So, it is possible there can be more than one CATCH block that is compatible with a particular condition’s type. In this case,
the AVM executes the first CATCH block it encounters that
is compatible. For this reason, CATCH blocks should be
arranged from the most specific type to the most general.

CATCH blocks are covered in greater depth in ABL Error Handling.

Syntax

object-variable: The variable name that references the object caught by this block.
    It is not necessary to define the object-variable
    ahead of time. The AVM recognizes a new variable name on the CATCH statement as a new object-variable definition within the current scope. Each CATCH in an associated block must have a unique object-variable. You can reuse an object-variable name in a different associated block, if its type is the
    same as the previous use. For all blocks with their own variable scope, such as object
    methods or internal procedures, a CATCH statement
    inside that context may reuse the same variable name as a CATCH statement outside of that context even if the type is different.

condition-class: The code within a CATCH block only
    executes if a condition of type, condition-class (or
    a subtype), is raised within the body of the associated block.

catch-logic: Any valid ABL statement. This typically contains a MESSAGE statement to display or log an error, or code to
    handle user-defined application conditions.

Examples

Example 1

In the following example, the CATCH block handles any ABL
system error.

Example 2

The following example illustrates how object-variable
names can be reused.

Example 3

The following example illustrates using multiple CATCH blocks to handle
specific conditions.The CATCH block for the more specialized error classes
should come first.

Notes

 The use of CATCH blocks is supported
  for all blocks, however it cannot be used in a simple DO
  block (one with no options). This is because the simple DO block does not have implicit error handling capabilities. You will get a
  compiler error if you try. DO blocks must have an
  explicit TRANSACTION, ON ERROR UNDO, or ON STOP directive, in order to have a CATCH block.
 If a FINALLY block is used at the end of an associated block, it must
  come after any CATCH blocks. For more information on
  FINALLY blocks see ABL Error
  Handling.
 The compiler issues a warning message if a block contains a CATCH block that is not reachable. For example, if you have a
  CATCH block for Progress.Lang.AppError followed by a CATCH
  block for a subtype of Progress.Lang.AppError, you get a
  compiler warning.
 Using NO-ERROR on a statement prevents
  a CATCH block from executing if the statement raises a
  condition. The general error handling precedence, from highest to lowest, is the
  following:
• Statement NO-ERROR option
• CATCH block
• Block's ON phrase (explicit or
    implicit)For more information on the precedence of CATCH
  blocks see ABL Error Handling.
 The CATCH block is an undoable block with implicit
  ON ERROR UNDO, THROW error handling. You cannot
  explicitly override the ON ERROR directive for a CATCH block.
 A CATCH block within a CATCH block only handles errors raised within the CATCH block. To prevent infinite looping, the implicit or
  explicit UNDO, THROW statement within the top-level
  CATCH block, or any CATCH block nested within it, immediately throws the error to the block that
  encloses the associated block of the top-level CATCH
  block. For more detail, see ABL Error
  Handling.
 The ability to throw and catch Progress.Lang.Stop (and it's subclasses) or Progress.Lang.StopError objects is the default in 12.0. To turn this off you
  must have the Catch STOP (-catchStop) startup parameter
  set to the value 0 (-catchStop
  0). If a value of 0 is specified, the AVM raises the STOP condition only, without throwing the associated object.
 Class-based error or stop objects can be thrown from an OpenEdge
  application server and handled by a CATCH block on an
  ABL client. To be thrown, any user-defined error classes must be defined, on both the
  server and client sides, as SERIALIZABLE. For more
  information on throwing error objects from an application server to an ABL client, see
  ABL Error Handling.

See also

BLOCK-LEVEL ON ERROR UNDO, THROW statement, ON ERROR phrase, ON STOP phrase, Progress.Lang.Error interface, Progress.Lang.Stop class, RETURN statement, ROUTINE-LEVEL ON ERROR UNDO, THROW statement, UNDO statement




CHOOSE statement

After you display data, the CHOOSE statement moves a highlight bar among a series of
choices and selects a choice when you press GO, RETURN, or enter a unique combination of initial
characters.

This statement is supported only for backward compatibility.

Note: Does not apply to SpeedScript programming.

Syntax

You can specify the AUTO-RETURN, COLOR, GO-ON, KEYS, NO-ERROR, and PAUSE options in any
order.

ROW field: Tells CHOOSE to move a highlight bar among iterations of a down frame. The
    field is the name of the field that you want the highlight bar to
    begin highlighting. The ROW option is useful for browsing through a set of records,
    although field does not have to refer to database records.

    If you
    use the ROW option with the CHOOSE statement, use the SCROLL statement as well. See
    the SCROLL statement reference entry examples.

    If you use ROW, you can add a COLOR
    statement to control the video display highlighting.

FIELD field: Tells CHOOSE to move a highlight bar through a set of fields or set of array elements
    in a frame. The field argument is the table record or array variable
    with fields or elements through which you want to move the highlight bar. These fields
    or array elements must be defined as ABL default FILL-IN widgets (not specified with the
    FILL-IN NATIVE option). The FIELD option is useful for building menus. You can also
    supply help for field.

HELP char-constant: Lets you provide help text for each field in a CHOOSE FIELD statement or for the
    entire CHOOSE ROW statement. For the CHOOSE ROW statement, the help text is displayed
    throughout the CHOOSE operation. For the CHOOSE FIELD statement, the help text you
    specify for a field is displayed whenever you move to the field.

AUTO-RETURN: Tells the AVM to use the selection when you enter a unique string of initial
    characters. When you use AUTO-RETURN and the user enters a unique string of initial
    characters, the AVM sets the value of LASTKEY to KEYCODE (return).

COLOR color-phrase: Specifies a video attribute or color for the highlight bar. Following is the syntax
    for color-phrase:

    For more information on color-phrase, see the COLOR phrase reference
    entry.

GO-ON (key-label)...: Names key-labels for keys that cause CHOOSE to return control to
    the procedure. If you do not use the GO-ON option, CHOOSE returns control to the
    procedure when the user presses GO, RETURN, END-ERROR, or types a
    unique substring when AUTO-RETURN is in effect. If you don't specify F1, RETURN, or F4, those keys are still GO-ON keys by default.

KEYS char-variable: If you want to highlight a particular choice when entering a CHOOSE statement, or if
    you want to know what keys the user pressed to make a selection, use the KEYS option.
    When you use the KEYS option, you must give the name of a character variable,
    char-variable. If char-variable is initialized
    to one of the choices before entering the CHOOSE statement, the AVM highlights that
    choice. As the user presses keys to move the highlight bar, the AVM saves those
    keystrokes in char-variable. You can test the value of
    char-variable after the CHOOSE statement returns control to the
    procedure. There is a 40-character limit when using the KEYS option.

NO-ERROR: Overrides default error handling by the CHOOSE statement, and returns control to the
    procedure. If you do not use the NO-ERROR option, the CHOOSE statement causes the
    terminal to beep when the user presses an invalid key.

    If you use the NO-ERROR option
    and the user presses an invalid key, the CHOOSE statement ends. At this point, you
    usually want to use the LASTKEY function to test the value of the last key the user
    pressed and then take the appropriate action.

    Note that the NO-ERROR option of
    the CHOOSE statement does not have any affect on the ERROR-STATUS system
    handle.

PAUSE expression: Specifies a time-out period in seconds. If the user does not make a keystroke for the
    specified number of seconds, the CHOOSE statement times out and returns control to the
    procedure. You can choose a whole or a fractional value for the time-out interval. If
    the time-out period you specify is a fractional value, the value is rounded to the
    nearest whole millisecond.

    The time-out period begins before the user's first
    keystroke and is reset after each keystroke. If CHOOSE times out, the value of LASTKEY
    is -1. Use the time-out period to prevent inactivity.

frame-phrase: Specifies the overall layout and processing properties of a frame.
    For more information on frame-phrase, see the Frame phrase reference entry.

Example

The following procedure displays a strip menu with four choices. The procedure defines two
arrays; one holds the items for selection on the menu, the other holds the names of the
programs associated with the menu selections. The CHOOSE statement allows the user to select
an item from the strip menu. The AVM finds the number (within the array) associated with the
item selected and the program associated with that number in the proglist array. The AVM
runs the program, if it exists, and displays a message. It also allows the user to select
another item if the program does not exist. (In your own application, you associate actions
with items selected by the CHOOSE statement.)

r-chsmnu.p

The GO-ON option sets the GET key to perform an action like
GO. With the LASTKEY function, you could check for F5 and take another action relevant to your application.

Notes

 If you do not specify help text in the CHOOSE statement, any help text you specify for
  the field in the Data Dictionary is displayed instead. If no help text is specified in
  either the CHOOSE statement or Data Dictionary, then the status default message is
  displayed throughout the CHOOSE statement.
 The CHOOSE statement takes different actions depending on the key you press and whether
  you use the NO-ERROR option, as shown in the following table.

  Table 1. CHOOSE statement actions

  r-chs1.p

  Once you run this procedure, your window looks like the following:

 When you press 2, CHOOSE moves the highlight bar to 2. When you press 4, CHOOSE moves
  the bar to 24. When you press 6, CHOOSE looks for the string 246. Because it cannot find
  the string, it matches the last key pressed (6) and places the highlight bar on 6.
 A choose field can temporarily become a handle type for internal purposes, but is not
  actually a widget since it does not have its own set of attributes and widgets. Therefore,
  you might see myhandle:TYPE = choose field in the widget tree, but you cannot manipulate
  the choose field.
• In the context of the.NET blocking method, System.Windows.Forms.Application:Run(), if you execute the CHOOSE statement
  for a non-modal ABL window from within a user-defined function or non-VOID method, this
  statement raises the STOP condition. For more information on the.NET Application:Run() method, see the reference entry for the
  WAIT-FOR statement (.NET and ABL).

See also

COLOR phrase, Frame phrase, SCROLL statement,
STATUS statement




COMPILE statement

Compiles a procedure file or a class definition file. A compilation can
last for a session, or you can save it permanently for use in later sessions (as an r-code
file, which has a.r extension).

When you compile a class definition file, ABL compiles the class definition
file identified in the COMPILE statement and all class files in its
inherited class hierarchy, by default. You can direct ABL to compile only those class
definition files in the class hierarchy that are not found in the cache, and cache any
classes or interfaces it compiles during the session, by setting the MULTI-COMPILE attribute to TRUE.

Note: When you change the
definition of a class, Progress Software Corporation recommends that you recompile all
classes that inherit the modified class. This recommendation does not apply to method logic
changes within a class.

After you compile a procedure file, you use the RUN
statement to create an instance of the procedure, and you use a handle to access the
procedure and its context. After you compile a class definition file, you use the NEW function (classes) to create an instance of the
class, and you use an object reference to access the class-based object, as well as its data
members, properties, and methods.

For more information about compiling procedure files, see Develop ABL Applications. For more information about compiling
class definition files, see Develop Object-oriented ABL
Applications.

Syntax

procedure-pathname | VALUE (expression): Specifies the name and location of a procedure file you want to
    compile, where procedure-pathname is the literal
    procedure pathname and expression is a character
    expression that evaluates to the procedure pathname. This pathname can be a full
    (absolute) pathname or it can be a pathname (or procedure filename only) relative to
    PROPATH. The specified procedure filename must include the extension (.p or.w) whether
    you specify it alone or as part of a path. On UNIX, filenames are case sensitive, so you
    must enter them exactly as they are stored. In Windows, the pathname cannot contain
    characters outside of the non-Unicode code page. See Internationalize ABL Applications for more information about Unicode and code
    pages.

class-pathname | VALUE (expression): Specifies the name and location of a class definition file you want
    to compile. This can be a literal full (absolute) pathname or a literal pathname
    relative to PROPATH. If it is a relative pathname, the class or interface type name
    defined in the file must match the pattern of this relative pathname. If the type name
    is not defined with a package, the relative pathname must specify only the class
    filename. In all cases, the class filename must include the.cls extension. On UNIX, the class-pathname and corresponding class or interface type name are case
    sensitive, so you must enter them exactly as they are stored. In Windows, the he
    class-pathname and corresponding class or
    interface type name cannot contain characters outside of the non-Unicode code page. See
    Internationalize ABL Applications for more information
    about Unicode and code pages. For more information on packages and class or interface
    type names, see the Type-name syntax
    reference entry.

OPTIONS options-list | OPTIONS-FILE { options-file | VALUE (expression)}: Enforces one or more rules during compilation. In the case of
    OPTIONS, the rules are specified by a character expression that
    evaluates to a comma-separated list of options. In the case of
    OPTIONS-FILE, the rules are specified in the same way, but supplied
    in a designated file.

    The possible options are described in the
    following table:

    Note that the severity level specifies what happens when
    there is a failure:

     Error generates a message
      for each failure, and prevents the generation of r-code.
     Warning generates a message
      for each failure, but allows the generation of r-code, provided that the only
      failures during compilation are related to the option. (Other types of failure can
      prevent r-code generation.)
     If no severity level is specified, the default is Warning.

    For example, the following COMPILE
    statement enforces full table and field names, and fully qualified references with
    different severity levels.

    The code below shows access of a field with a fully qualified reference,
    followed by unqualified and abbreviated examples of the same statement. Only the first
    statement compiles without error if the code is compiled using the statement
    above.

    If options-list or the
    contents of the options-file resolve to the empty string ("") or white space only,
    then no options are applied. If options-list or
    the contents of the options-file resolve to the Unknown value (?), then the compiler ignores the
    OPTIONS or OPTIONS-FILE phrase. If an option
    listed is not valid, the compile statement fails with an error. When compiling a class
    hierarchy, the options set in the COMPILE statement are applied to
    all files compiled for the hierarchy.

    You can also set these
    options using the OPTIONS attribute of the COMPILER
    system handle, which can be initialized with the Compiler Options (-compileroptionsfile) startup parameter. (See Startup Command and Parameter Reference for more
    information.) Options set using the OPTIONS or
    OPTIONS-FILE in the COMPILE statement override any
    options set in the OPTIONS attribute of the COMPILER
    system handle (unless options-list or the
    contents of the options-file resolve to the Unknown value (?), as described above).

    Note: OPTION-FILE supports the use of the hashtag (#) to include
    comments in the options file. See the Compiler Options (-compileroptionsfile) startup parameter in Startup
    Command and Parameter Reference for an example.

SAVE [ = logical-expression ][ INTO { directory | VALUE (expression) }]: Produces a file that contains the r-code for the procedure or class
    you are compiling.

    If you specify a logical-expression, its value determines whether the
    SAVE or STREAM-IO options are activated. If the
    logical-expression is evaluated to the Unknown
    value (?), a run-time error occurs.

    When you compile a class definition file with the
    SAVE option, ABL produces an r-code file for the class definition
    file and all class files in its inherited class hierarchy. For example, if you compile
    a class definition file that has two classes in its inherited class hierarchy, ABL
    compiles three files and produces three r-code files.

    These
    r-code files are saved across ABL sessions. If you do not use the
    SAVE phrase, the COMPILE statement produces r-code
    for the source procedure or class, but the r-code is not saved across ABL sessions.
    This r-code is a session-compile version of the procedure or class.

    The COMPILE SAVE statement produces r-code files
    with the name procedure-pathname.r or class-pathname.r, where procedure-pathname is the pathname of a procedure source
    file without the filename extension, and class-pathname
    is the pathname of a class source file without the filename extension. ABL
    ignores the filename extension of a procedure or class definition file and always
    creates r-code files that use the same filename with a.r extension. For example, if you supply a filename of test, test.p, or test.cls, COMPILE SAVE produces an r-code
    file with the name test.r. If you specify a filename
    of test.bp, COMPILE SAVE still
    produces an r-code file with the name test.r.

    CAUTION: Where both procedure and class definition files compile to a.r file, be sure to use distinct filenames. If you have a
    procedure file and a class definition file with the same name, and you compile them
    both with COMPILE SAVE, the first.r file is overwritten by the second.r
    file.

    By default, the r-code file is stored in the same
    directory as the source file. The r-code files for inherited (super) class definition
    files are also stored in the same directory as their respective source files.

    If you use the SAVE INTO phrase, r-code files
    produced by a compilation can be saved in a different directory. See the Examples
    section and the Notes section of this reference entry for more information.

    A newly created r-code file replaces any existing r-code file of the
    same name.

LISTING {listfile| VALUE (expression) }: Produces a compilation listing that includes:

     The name of the file containing the procedure or class you
      compile
     The date and time at the start of the compilation
     The number of each line in the procedure or class file
     The block number where each statement belongs
     The complete text of all include files (except encrypted include
      files) and the names of any subprocedures and user-defined functions

    The listfile or
    VALUE (expression) identifies
    the name of the file in which you want to store the Compiler listing. If expression evaluates to the Unknown value (?), then ABL ignores the LISTING option.
    In Windows, the filename cannot contain characters outside of the non-Unicode code
    page.

APPEND [ = logical-expression]: Appends the current listing to the contents of the listing file. If
    you do not use the APPEND option, ABL creates a new listing file,
    replacing any file of the same name.

    If you specify a logical-expression, its value determines whether the
    APPEND option is activated. If the logical-expression is evaluated to the Unknown value (?), a run-time error occurs.

PAGE-SIZE integer-expression: Identifies the number of lines to a page in the listing file. The
    default page size is 55 and integer-expression must
    be between 10 and 127, inclusive.

PAGE-WIDTH integer-expression: Identifies the number of page columns in the listing file. The
    default page width is 80, and integer-expression
    must be between 80 and 255, inclusive. Add at least 12 spaces to the page width when you
    type the file. This allows you to list information that precedes each line of code,
    ensuring that the file appears in the listing output exactly as you typed it.

XCODE expression: Decrypts the source code in procedure-pathname or class-pathname,
    and any encrypted include files, using the decryption key expression. The decryption key is also used with any class or interface in
    the hierarchy or any object-oriented ABL reference in a procedure or class that is not
    in the class hierarchy.

    When the COMPILE statement
    detects that a source file is encrypted, it performs the following checks:

     If the XCODE option is provided, then
      COMPILE uses the key specified by expression. If the key does not match the source file key, then the
      compilation fails with an error message. Use this option only when the encryption
      key is not the built-in (default) key or the encryption key for the session.
     If XCODE is not present, the
      COMPILE statement looks for a session-level encryption key in the
      XCODE-SESSION-KEY attribute of the
      SECURITY-POLICY handle. If COMPILE finds a
      session key and it does not match the source file key, then the compilation fails
      with an error message.
     If XCODE is not present and there is no session
      key, the COMPILE statement uses the default key. If the default key
      does not match the source file key, then the compilation fails with an error
      message. If a session key is in effect and you want a COMPILE
      statement to use the default key, then you must unset the
      XCODE-SESSION-KEY attribute by setting it to the Unknown value
      (?) before executing the
      COMPILE statement.
     The XCODE utility does not perform code page
      conversions and does not use the -cpinternal
      parameter when encrypting files. Therefore, the source code and key use the default
      code page of the operating system where you run the XCODE utility.
      If a different code page is in effect where XCODE-SESSION-KEY is
      set, then code page conversions may prevent the attribute key from matching the
      XCODE utility key and the compile fails. To prevent this case,
      use only US-ASCII characters, which are found in all code pages below code point
Include files that are not encrypted are included and compiled
    in the standard manner.

    Having the decryption key does not
    allow you to examine a decrypted version of the source code.

    Note: You cannot use XCODE with the XREF,
    XREF-XML, STRING-XREF, or LISTING
    options together. Also, if the DEBUG-LIST option is used with an
    encrypted source file, the resulting debug file only contains a notice that the source
    file is encrypted.

XREF {xreffile| VALUE (expression) } [ APPEND [ = logical-expression ] ]: Returns reference information on ABL elements, cross-references
    between procedures and ABL objects, and cross-references between class or interface
    definition files and ABL objects. See Table 1 for more information on the type of reference information
    returned.

    Information can be written to the file xreffile or VALUE (expression). If expression returns
    the Unknown value (?), then ABL ignores the XREF
    option.

    In addition, you can use the APPEND
    option to add information to an existing file. When you use APPEND,
    the first line for a procedure contains information for the COMPILE
    type. This allows you to easily find where the information for each compilation
    begins. If you specify a logical-expression, its
    value determines whether the APPEND option is activated. If logical-expression is evaluated to the Unknown value
    (?), a run-time error occurs.

    XREF generates one unformatted, white
    space-separated line in xreffile for each
    referenced element. Each line has the following format:

    The source-name is the
    name of the procedure or class file you compile with the COMPILE XREF
    statement. The file-name is the name of the file
    containing the referenced element. For example, file-name could be an include file. Otherwise, file-name is the same as source-name.
    The line-number is the line number of the
    statement in file-name that contains the
    referenced element. The xref-type is the type of
    reference in the code and xref-information
    contains details about the reference.

    The possible values for
    xref-type and xref-information appear in the following table.

    Table 1. XREF types and XREF information

    This is the syntax for data-member-name:

    This is the syntax for invocation-parameter:

    The invocation parameters are listed for every constructor
    or method invocation that has arguments. If a method or constructor is overloaded,
    invocation parameters can be used to determine which version of the method or
    constructor is being invoked. If the compiler has not resolved the method call (that
    is, it has deferred resolution to run time), one or more of the invocation parameters
    may be identified as TABLE REFERENCE, DATASET
    REFERENCE, or RUNTYPE. This label indicates that the
    argument being passed matches the type of the corresponding parameter in more than one
    of the candidate overloads.

    In the case of TABLE
    REFERENCE or DATASET REFERENCE, the parameter may be a
    static temp table or dataset or a handle to a temp table or dataset.

    RUNTYPE means that the compiler cannot determine
    the type because the argument is, for example,
    BUFFER-FIELD(1):BUFFER-HANDLE.

    EXTENT without a constant integer value following it may simply
    mean that the parameter is defined as indeterminate, or it may mean that the call has
    not been resolved and the candidate overloads have arrays of different extents at that
    position in the parameter list.

    The following notes describe
    more usage information for Table 1:

     PUBLIC-DATA-MEMBER,
      PACKAGE-PROTECTED-DATA-MEMBER, and
      PACKAGE-PRIVATE-DATA-MEMBER indicate that a line of code in a
      client of a class references a class public data member through an object reference.
      For example: localvar = MyInstance:PubMember.
      Properties are treated similarly.
     In contrast to PUBLIC-DATA-MEMBER,INHERITED-DATA-MEMBER indicates that a line of code references a data
      member inherited by the class in which the reference appears.
      DATA-MEMBER in an UPDATE or
      ACCESS entry indicates that a line of code references a
      temp-table or related object that has been defined in the class in which the
      reference appears. Properties are treated similarly.
     There are quotes around the name of a class or interface if its
      package name includes a space.
     In the CLASS entry, INHERITS
      inherited-class-name indicates the immediate
      super class of the class, if any exists. If the super class inherits from one or
      more classes, the names of these classes appear following the name of the immediate
      super class of the compiled class. Each inherited class name is separated from the
      preceding one by a space.
     XREF output includes "STRING"
      reference type entries. In addition to the strings that are already logged (variable
      names, function and procedure names, and so on), the XREF output
      now includes "STRING" reference type entries for class names,
      inherited class names, implemented interface names, method names, property names,
      and data member names.
     If a class has a super class but does not explicitly execute the
      SUPER statement in its constructor, the ABL compiler adds an
      implicit SUPER invocation to the r-code. When this happens, there
      is an INVOKE entry generated for the implicit
      SUPER invocation. This entry indicates that the name of the
      method being invoked is super-class-type-name:class-name
      (the constructor name). Instead of a line number, the entry uses the label
      IMPLICIT.
     As is the case with procedures and functions, the entry for a
      method, constructor, or destructor is made during compilation of the element's
      END statement. Therefore, a METHOD entry appears
      after the entries for items encountered within the method, and the line number given
      is the line number of its END statement.
     Note that field for
      REFERENCE is optional. It does not appear if the corresponding
      line of code is either VALIDATE
      temp-table or RELEASE
      temp-table.
     If a class has as a data member an ABL handle and code uses that
      handle to call a built-in ABL method or to set or get a built-in attribute, the
      XREF output includes just an ACCESS entry and
      the entry identifies only the name of the handle data member, not the method or
      attribute involved. (This is similar to how XREF handles
      SHARED variables that are handles.)
     The XREF entry for CAST
      includes the source type if it is possible to determine the source type at compile
      time. If not, it includes only the target type.

    Note: You cannot use the XREF and XCODE
    options together. That is, you cannot create a cross-reference listing from code that
    is encrypted.

XREF-XML { directory |filename | VALUE (expression) }: Writes reference information to a formatted XML file. The standard
    XREF option writes the information to an unformatted text file. The
    XREF-XML option provides structured output that is formatted with
    white space for easier parsing by humans. More importantly, this option exposes the
    reference information in a format that developers can exploit with custom-built tools or
    visualize in a ProDataset or a.NET dataset.

    Table 1 and the accompanying documentation in the XREF
    option section describes the XREF type and XREF information returned by either the
    XREF or the XREF-XML options. When you use
    XREF-XML, the XREF type is assigned to the Reference-type attribute. However, XREF information can
    be assigned to a number of XML elements including the Object-identifier attribute.

    For compiling a
    single procedure or class, you can provide a filename for the XML output file.
    However, this output file is overwritten each time the compiler needs to compile a
    linked class or procedure.

    For compiling several procedures
    and classes in a single compile statement, supply a directory for the XREF-XML option. The
    XREF-XML option uses this directory and a standard naming
    convention to capture the cross-reference information from multiple procedures and
    classes in separate files. Contrast this with the APPEND mode used by
    the XREF option.

    When a directory is
    supplied, the compiler takes the root name of the procedure or class being compiled
    and creates a cross-reference file with this name and a.xref.xml file extension (sourcefilename.xref.xml). It stores it in the directory path specified,
    creating any necessary subdirectories that do not exist. If the main directory
    specified does not exist, then an error is raised.

    If the
    filename supplied to the compiler begins with a relative path, then the directory name
    supplied to the XREF-XML option includes that relative path. For
    example, suppose your Unix PROPATH is /projectA/source and you run this COMPILE
    statement:

    The COMPILE statement looks for the source
    file /projectA/source/test/procedureA.p and
    place the XREF-XML output in /projectA/xref/test/procedureA.xref.xml (if the source file successfully
    compiles).

    If the source file uses a full path, then the
    XREF-XML option stores the output in the directory provided,
    ignoring the path of the source file.

    You may want to check
    for possible filename collisions before using this option. For example, if you have
    myCode.p and myCode.cls, both use the myCode.xref.xml output file, destroying some of your cross-reference
    information.

    When you use the VALUE option to
    provide a filename or directory path, if VALUE returns the empty
    string or the Unknown value (?), then the compiler
    ignores the XREF-XML option.

    If class
    definition source files in a class hierarchy are in different directories, matching
    subdirectories are created for them under the provided XREF-XML directory.

    The XML Schema used with XREF-XML output files is stored in the
    following location: $DLC/properties/schemas/xrefdxxxx.xsd. The XXXX portion of the file name indicates the version
    number of the file.

    You can see an example on the difference
    between XREF and XREF-XML output in the Examples
    section at the end of the COMPILE statement reference.

    Note: You cannot use the XREF-XML option with the
    XREF option or with the XCODE option at the same
    time.

STRING-XREF {sxreffile | VALUE (expression) } [ APPEND [= logical-expression ] ]: Writes cross-reference string information between procedures and ABL
    objects, or between class definition files and ABL objects, to the file sxreffile or VALUE (expression). If expression evaluates to the Unknown value (?), ABL ignores the STRING-XREF option.

    The x.y is a
    major.minor version number, where a major version change implies a formatting change
    that is not backward compatible with older versions of TranManII. The source-file is the name of the file from which the
    strings are extracted. The code-page is the code
    page with which the file was written.

    The line for each string
    appears in the following format:

    The line-number is the
    same as line-number in the standard XREF file.
    The object-name is the name of the object with
    which the string is associated. The max-length
    and string-justification come from the string
    attribute (either explicit or implicit) and reflect the attributes applied to the
    string as it is entered into the text segment.

    The statement-type describes the type of statement in which
    the string appears. Only one statement type appears in a given string's output line.
    The values in the following table are possible:

    Note: Any statement type that is not included in the preceding
    list appears as OTHER.

    The detail-info is one or more detail tags that specify more
    specifically where the string appears in the statement. The values in the following
    table are possible:

    Note: The NON-ALPHA tag indicates that a
    string consists entirely of blanks or digits. The FORMAT tag is
    followed by one of the following tags: CHAR, NUMERIC (includes
    decimal and integer), DATE, or BOOL. These tags
    indicate the type of format. When a string can appear in only one place in a
    statement, no detail tag appears.

    The following table shows
    the valid combinations of statement types and detail tags.

    Table 2. Valid statement type and detail tag combination

STREAM-IO [ = logical-expression ]: Specifies that all output from the compiled procedure or class is
    formatted for output to a file or printer. This means that all font specifications are
    ignored and all frames are treated as if they had the USE-TEXT option
    given. This produces a platform-independent output appropriate for printing.

LANGUAGES ({ language-list | VALUE (expression) }): Identifies which language segments to include in the compiled
    r-code.

    Language-list is a comma-separated list of language
    definitions used to generate each text segment. Each language definition consists of a
    colon-separated list of languages, in order of preference, used to find the
    translation of each string stored in the text
    segment.

    Expression (in
    VALUE(expression)) is a character expression
    equivalent to the language-list. If expression evaluates to the Unknown value (?), then ABL ignores the LANGUAGES option.

    Translated character strings for each specified language are read
    from the translation database and are stored in segments within the r-code. For
    example:

    If you use an expression to specify language-list, you must use the VALUE
    option. For example:

    In this example, the compiler searches the translation
    database for French-Canadian translations. If a French-Canadian translation is not
    found, the compiler searches for a French translation. If a French translation is not
    found, the compiler searches for an English translation. If an English translation is
    not found, the compiler uses the strings from the source code.

    This example generates four text segments: French-Canadian,
    Portuguese, New-York, and the unnamed (default) text segment. The first language name
    in each language-list argument designates the
    name of the text segment and specifies the first language that the compiler looks up
    in the translation database. As a result, it is possible to create a text segment
    whose name has no relationship to the languages it is composed of. For example, the
    following argument creates a text segment named BABEL:

    Provided there is no language named BABEL
    in the translation database, the strings in this text segment would be either French,
    Spanish, Italian, or German, depending on which strings have translations in which
    languages.

TEXT-SEG-GROW = growth-factor: Specifies the factor by which ABL increases the length of strings.
    When you develop an application that is going to be translated, it is important to allow
    for the growth of the text in your widgets. If you use the
    TEXT-SEG-GROW option, ABL increases the size of the text strings when
    it compiles your application.

    ABL uses the following formula to
    determine the length of strings:

    Where:

     New-length is the new
      string length.
     Actual-length is the actual
      string length.
     growth-factor is the value
      specified with the TEXT-SEG-GROW option.
     table-value is the
      appropriate percentage from the following table:

    For example, if you have a text string that is 25 characters
    and you specify a growth-factor of 50, ABL
    applies the formula as follows and defines the New-length as 35:

    Note: TEXT-SEG-GROW is supported only when
    you also use the LANGUAGES option.

DEBUG-LIST {debugfile| VALUE (expression) }: Writes the debug listing to the file debugfile or VALUE(expression). If expression
    evaluates to the Unknown value (?), then ABL ignores
    the DEBUG-LIST option. The debugfile consists of a line-numbered listing of the procedure with the
    text of all preprocessor include files, names, and parameters inserted. In Windows, the
    filename cannot contain characters outside of the non-Unicode code page.

PREPROCESS {preprocessfile| VALUE (expression) }: Preprocesses the procedure or class definition file and writes the
    preprocessed source code to the file preprocessfile
    or VALUE(expression). If expression evaluates to the Unknown value (?), ABL ignores the PREPROCESS option. The
    preprocessfile is a text file that contains a
    final version of your source code after all include files have been inserted and all
    text substitutions have been performed. In Windows, the filename cannot contain
    characters outside of the non-Unicode code page.

V6FRAME [ = logical-expression ][USE-REVVIDEO | USE-UNDERLINE]: The V6FRAME option is designed specifically to
    compile and run Progress Version 6 applications with Progress Version 7 or later in
    Windows. This option uses the V6FontNumber setting in the [Startup]
    section of the current environment (which might be the Registry or an initialization
    file) to calculate the height and width of a character unit and then set the layout grid
    used to compile frames for display in Progress Version 7 or later.

    At run time, the FONT attribute for a frame compiled with the
    V6FRAME option is set to the font number specified with the
    V6FontNumber setting. The default setting for the
    V6FontNumber setting is 3.

    By default,
    V6FRAME displays a border around a fill-in field. This means that
    your code requires more space on the screen than in Progress Version 6. You can
    override this behavior with one of the following options:

     USE-REVVIDEO displays no border around a
      fill-in field. When a fill-in is enabled for input, the color of the fill-in changes
      to the color specified with the INPUT setting in the [Colors]
      section in the current environment (which might be the registry or an initialization
      file). The IBEAM cursor signals that a fill-in field has input focus.
     USE-UNDERLINE displays no border around a
      fill-in widget. When a fill-in is enabled for input, the underline attribute of the
      font (V6FontNumber) for the fill-in is turned on. The color of a
      fill-in enabled for input does not change. The IBEAM cursor signals that a fill-in
      field has input focus.

    The V6FRAME option also limits the vertical
    size of a frame title to one character unit based upon the layout grid. The text of
    the frame title is in the font specified with the V6FontNumber
    setting in the [Startup] section of the current environment (which might be the
    registry or an initialization file).

    The
    V6FRAME option governs the appearance of screen output only. Use
    the STREAM-IO option to compile procedures that output to files and
    printers. If you specify the V6FRAME and STREAM-IO
    options in the same COMPILE statement, the STREAM-IO
    option overrides the V6FRAME option.

    If you
    specify a logical-expression, its value
    determines whether the V6 compile option is activated. If the logical-expression is evaluated to the Unknown value
    (?), a run-time error occurs.

    For more
    information on the environment for an ABL session, see Manage
    ABL Applications.

MIN-SIZE [ = logical-expression ]: Minimizes the size of the generated r-code file by eliminating the
    Debugger Segment (which is used by the OpenEdge Debugger) and the signature descriptor
    data (which is used by the Open Client Proxy Generator).

    If you
    specify a logical-expression, its value
    determines whether the MIN-SIZE option is activated (TRUE) or not
    (FALSE). If the logical-expression evaluates to
    the Unknown value (?), a run-time error occurs. The default value is
    FALSE.

DEFAULT-UNTRANSLATABLE [ = logical-expression ]: If the logical-expression evaluates to
    YES/TRUE, then literal character strings with no string attributes
    are considered untranslatable. This is the same behavior as if the
    string:U syntax is used (see " "Character-string literal for more information on string attributes).

    If the
    option is not specified, or DEFAULT-UNTRANSLATABLE=FALSE, then
    literal character strings with no attributes are considered translatable.

    If
    the logical-expression evaluates to the Unknown
    value (?), a run-time error occurs.

    The following code example
    describes the behavior if the DEFAULT-UNTRANSLATABLE option is not
    specified or if set to NO/FALSE.

    The following code example describes the behavior if
    DEFAULT-UNTRANSLATABLE is set to
    YES/TRUE.

    Note: The
    Default Untranslatable (-defuntrans) startup parameter can
    be used to enable the untranslatable behavior for compiles during the
    session.

NO-ERROR: The NO-ERROR option is used to prevent the statement from raising ERROR and displaying error messages.

    You can also check the ERROR and WARNING attributes of the COMPILER system handle to determine whether an error or warning
    occurred.

Examples

Example 1: COMPILE with SAVE option

In this procedure, ABL compiles the ord-ent procedure, produces an r-code file, ord-ent.r, that can be used across ABL sessions, and saves the r-code file in
the current directory:

r-cmple.p

Example 2: COMPILE with SAVE INTO option

You can save the r-code file in a different directory by using the
SAVE INTO phrase. For example, to save an r-code file in /usr/sources on a UNIX system, enter this command:

Example 3: COMPILE with SAVE INTO option for class files

In this example, the class is defined within a package:

Compile using the SAVE INTO option.

The.r file is saved into /rcode/Classes/OE.

In contrast, if the class is not defined within a package:

Compile using the SAVE INTO option with this command:

ABL saves the.r file into /rcode. No
subdirectories are created because myClass2.cls is in the default
package.

Example 4: COMPILE with SAVE, LISTING, XREF, XREF-XML, and DEBUG-LIST options

The following example shows the effect of include files on compilation
listings:

r-incl.p

Suppose you use the following COMPILE statement to
compile the r-incl.p procedure:

r-comlis.p

This COMPILE statement produces four files: r-incl.r, r-incl.lis,
r-incl.xrf, and r-incl.dbg.

The following listing contains the contents of the r-incl.lis, r-incl.xrf, and r-incl.dbg files:

r-incl.lis

This sample output is not an exact copy of the r-incl.lis file.

There are three columns next to the procedure in the listing file:
{} — The level of the include file
Line — The line number in the file
Blk — The number of the block

The information follows each of the procedure blocks or function
blocks:

 Line — The line number where the block starts
 Blk. Type — The type of block (Procedure, DO, FOR EACH,
  REPEAT)
 Tran — Whether the block is a transaction block
 Blk. Label — The label of the block
 Buffers — The name of the record buffer scoped to the block
 Frames — The name of the frame scoped to the block

This is the cross-reference file r-incl.xrf:

r-incl.xrf

Each line in the xref file
specifies the procedure, line number, access type, and access information. The first line in
the xref file contains the COMPILE
access type directive and the name of the procedure exactly as it appears in the
COMPILE statement. See Table 1
for a list of the values that follow a particular access type (for example, table and index after
SEARCH).

If you modified r-comlis.p to use
the XREF-XML option instead of XREF, your cross reference
file would be named r-comlis.xref.xml. The structured
formatting of XML would use many more lines to display the same information on one line of
standard XREF output. Here is a small snippet of that file:

This is the debug listing r-incl.dbg:

r-incl.dbg

For a class that implements an interface hierarchy or an interface that
inherits an interface hierarchy, the whole of the hierarchy appears in the XREF and XREF-XML
as a complete list. The following example illustrates the comparison of XREF output both
with and without interface inheritance.

XREF output without interface inheritance

XREF output with interface inheritance

Because interfaces support multiple inheritance, the order of the
interface hierarchy cannot be determined.

The following example is for the XREF-XML output both with and without
interface inheritance.

XREF-XML output without interface inheritance

XREF-XML output with interface inheritance

Notes

 When compiling class definition files, the following options apply to
  the class definition file identified in the COMPILE statement and all
  class files in its inherited class hierarchy: XCODE,
  STREAM-IO, LANGUAGES, V6FRAME, and
  MIN-SIZE.
 When compiling class definition files, the following options apply
  only to the class definition file identified in the COMPILE statement,
  and not to the class files in its inherited class hierarchy: PREPROCESS,
  LISTING, DEBUG-LIST, XREF, and
  STRING-XREF.
 If you want all record retrieval statements in a procedure to default
  to NO-LOCK, you must compile the procedure in an ABL session started with
  the No Lock (-NL) startup parameter. For more
  information on record locking, see Develop ABL
  Applications. For more information on the No Lock (-NL) startup parameter, see Startup Command and
  Parameter Reference.
 Two additional startup parameters are available that can affect the
  behavior of the COMPILE statement: Compile Warning List
  (-cwl) and Keyword Forget List (-k). The Compile Warning List option lets you specify a set
  of ABL statements that trigger compile-time warnings if they are found in the source code.
  The Keyword Forget List option lets you disable specified keywords, allowing you to
  compile code in which those keywords occur as ABL user-defined element names, such as
  table, field, variable, and procedure names. For more information about these startup
  parameters, see Startup Command and Parameter
  Reference.
 The value of the PROPATH environment variable defines the list of
  directories (path) to use when searching for a procedure.
 The ABL compiler does not search libraries for include files
  referenced in a procedure.
 On UNIX, you define the PROPATH variable in a startup script or in
  your.profile file. In Windows, you can define your
  PROPATH in the Registry or in an initialization file. You can also define the PROPATH
  interactively at the operating system level.

  In addition to any
  directories you define for PROPATH, ABL searches the directory containing the ABL system
  software. If you do not define a value for PROPATH, ABL searches your working directory
  by default.
 To locate the source file that you name in the COMPILE
  SAVE statement, ABL searches the first directory in PROPATH. If the source file
  is there, ABL compiles the source file and creates an r-code file. On UNIX, this new
  r-code file replaces any existing r-code file. If errors occur during compilation, ABL
  does not produce an r-code file and leaves existing r-code files unchanged.

  If ABL cannot find the source file, it continues on to the next
  directory in PROPATH.
 Use the SAVE INTO phrase to store a compiled r-code
  file in a different directory from its corresponding source file.

  If
  you specify a relative pathname for the source file, that pathname is appended to the
  SAVE INTO path. For example (using UNIX pathnames):

  In the example, ABL saves the source file /pro1/source/test/proc1.p as /pro1/obj/test/proc1.r.

  If the source file is a
  full pathname, ABL stores the r-code file in the SAVE INTO directory;
  it drops its original directory path. For example:

  In the example, ABL saves the source file as /usr/rcode/proc1.r.

  When you use
  the SAVE INTO phrase to store compiled r-code files for one or more
  class definition files specified with a package, ABL creates a directory structure under
  the specified SAVE INTO directory that is consistent with the directory
  structure of the original source files relative to PROPATH (if the directory structure
  doesn't already exist). That is, ABL creates a subdirectory under the specified
  SAVE INTO directory to match the original source directory for each
  class definition file in the hierarchy.

  For example, if the
  source for two class definition files in a class hierarchy reside in two different
  directories, such as dir1 and dir2, ABL creates two matching subdirectories named dir1 and dir2 under the
  specified SAVE INTO directory and stores the r-code files in their
  respective subdirectories.

  If the SAVE INTO
  pathname is null, ABL saves r-code files in the same directory as their source
  files.
 To locate a file with the COMPILE statement (without
  the SAVE phrase), ABL searches the first directory in PROPATH for a
  usable r-code file. A usable r-code file must meet these criteria:
• It must have the correct format; it must have been produced by the
    COMPILE SAVE statement.
• It must have been produced by the current version of the ABL
    compiler.
• It must have the same cyclic redundancy check (CRC) value as any
    database tables it references. When creating an r-code file, ABL includes, as part of
    the r-code file, the CRC of the most recent change to the database schema that affects
    this procedure (for example, adding or deleting a field or
    index definition in a table that the procedure references).
• On UNIX, it must have read access to the r-code file.

  If there is a usable r-code file, there is no reason to perform
  the compilation. You receive an error and the compilation stops unless you have
  specified the XREF, LISTING,
  PREPROCESS, or DEBUG-LIST option. If you specified
  one of these options, ABL continues with the compilation and produces the files
  specified and a session compile. If ABL does create a session compile version, the
  version is not used when you use the RUN statement. The
  RUN statement always uses an existing r-code file before using a
  session compile version of a procedure.

  If there is no usable
  r-code file, ABL searches the same directory in PROPATH for a source file. If the source
  file is there, ABL compiles it into the session compile file. If it is not there, ABL
  continues on to the next directory in PROPATH, searching for an r-code file, then for a
  source file.
 After you compile a procedure, the RUN statement does
  not recompile it. If you RUN a procedure multiple times within a session,
  changing the procedure between runs, you must manually recompile the procedure each time.
  Otherwise, the procedure's last r-code, which persists for a session, is found and the
  procedure is not automatically recompiled.
 The size of the r-code might vary, depending on the window system on
  which it is compiled.
 Modifications to existing field definitions do not affect database
  table CRC or time-stamp values. Therefore, updating a table's existing field definitions
  does not invalidate r-code versions of procedures that reference the table. However,
  adding or deleting tables, fields, or indexes does affect database table CRC and time
  stamps. This invalidates r-code versions of procedures that reference the changed
  tables.
 When you use a reserved keyword to specify a language with the
  LANGUAGES option, you must use quotation marks (" ")
  around the language-list.
 The SORT-BY-EXP reference in the XREF is used to
  indicate a FOR EACH or OPEN QUERY statement which
  contains a BY clause which uses an expression.
 A WHOLE-INDEX search reported for a table occurs when
  an entire index is used to search the table. (That is, the bracket used by the query to
  search the table spans the entire index.) This can occur either when no selection criteria
  are specified to limit the range of index keys searched (that is, to bracket a subset of
  the index) or when there is no appropriate index available to optimize the selection
  criteria. For example, the following queries on Customer table of the Sports2020 database
  both result in WHOLE-INDEX searches. The first query uses the Name index to search the entire table, returning every record
  in Name order. The second query uses the primary index to search the entire table because
  there is no index provided for the Balance field to limit the search.

  On the other hand, the following queries do not result in
  WHOLE-INDEX searches because the selection criteria directly limit
  the range of Name and CustNum index keys (respectively) to be searched:

 For SpeedScript, the following options are invalid:
  V6FRAME, USE-REVVIDEO, and
  USE-UNDERLINE.
 When ABL compiles a procedure or class definition file, it generates a
  unique signature value based on the code content and the schema, and stores it in the
  r-code file. You can read the SIGNATURE-VALUE attribute on the RCODE-INFO handle to determine the signature value for a procedure or class. This
  signature value is used by WebClient to determine if an r-code file has changed since the
  previous version of the application.
• The COMPILE statement is not synchronized with other
  ABL sessions. As such, compiling individual files in a common code base when applications
  are using that same code base for either compilation or execution, can cause unpredictable
  behavior and is not advised. The best practice is to holistically compile a project in one
  ABL session prior to updating a running application. The Progress Application Server (PAS)
  for OpenEdge supports the ability to easily update an application in production.

  For more information, see Update PROPATH in a production instance with zero
  downtime.

See also

COMPILER system handle, NEW function (classes), NO-ERROR option, RUN statement, Compile Warning List (-cwl), Keyword Forget List (-k), and No Lock (-NL) startup parameters (in
Startup Command and Parameter Reference)




CREATE CALL statement

Creates a call object, then stores a handle to it in the handle variable specified. The call object, its attributes, and its methods, are used by applications to invoke logic dynamically.

Syntax

handle: A HANDLE expression that indicates the name of a HANDLE variable
    into which a handle to the new call object is stored.

IN WIDGET-POOL widget-pool: A CHARACTER expression that indicates the name of the widget pool
    to contain the new call object.

NO-ERROR: The NO-ERROR option is used to prevent the
    statement from raising ERROR and displaying error messages.

Notes

 Unlike
  most ABL objects, the call object, by default, is assigned not to
  the closest unnamed widget pool, but rather to the SESSION widget pool.
 A call object is deleted automatically when its widget pool
  is deleted. To delete it earlier than its widget pool, use the DELETE
  OBJECT statement.

See also

Call object handle, DELETE OBJECT statement, NO-ERROR option




CREATE SERVER-SOCKET statement

Creates an instance of a server socket object and assigns it to the handle variable specified. It is through this object that a socket-based server application can listen for connections on a TCP/IP port.

Note: Does not apply to SpeedScript programming.

Syntax

handle: Variable of type HANDLE into which the CREATE
    SERVER-SOCKET statement stores the new server socket handle.

NO-ERROR: The NO-ERROR option is used to prevent the
    statement from raising ERROR and displaying error messages.

Notes

 An application can only create one server socket object. This statement
  will raise ERROR if an application tries to create multiple objects.
 A server socket object cannot be used with a Progress Application Server
  (PAS) for OpenEdge instance.

See also

CREATE SOCKET statement, DELETE OBJECT statement, NO-ERROR option, Server socket object handle, Socket object handle




CREATE SERVER statement

Creates an instance of a server object and
assigns its handle to the handle variable you specify.

Syntax

handle: A variable of type HANDLE into which CREATE SERVER stores the
    new server handle.

ASSIGN {attribute = expression}...: Assigns specified values to attributes of the handle. The attribute parameter
    must be the name of a valid attribute for a server handle, and the expression parameter
    must evaluate to a valid value for the attribute.

Note

You can use a server handle as a connection point to an application server.
For more information on server handles, see the Server object handle entry.

See also

DELETE OBJECT statement, RUN statement, Server object handle




CREATE SOCKET statement

Creates a socket object and assigns it to the handle variable specified. It is through this object that the application can connect to a TCP/IP port and read and write on the socket bound to the port.

Syntax

handle: Variable of type HANDLE into which CREATE SOCKET stores the new
    socket handle.

NO-ERROR: The NO-ERROR option is used to prevent the
    statement from raising ERROR and displaying error messages.

See also

CREATE SERVER-SOCKET statement, DELETE OBJECT statement, NO-ERROR option, Server socket object handle, Socket object handle




DEFINED preprocessor function

Returns the status of a preprocessor name or
include file argument name as an INTEGER value. You can use the
DEFINED function only within a preprocessor &IF expression.

Syntax

name: Preprocessor name or include file argument name whose status you want to check. You do
    not specify name as a preprocessor name reference or include file
    argument reference. That is, it is not quoted and does not appear in the reference form,
    {&name}. For example if you had a preprocessor name
    MAX-EXPENSE, the argument would appear as follows:

Notes

This
function returns a value of 1 if the argument was a name defined
with the &GLOBAL-DEFINE directive; a value of 2 if the argument
was passed as an include file parameter; and a value of 3 if the
argument was a name defined with the &SCOPED-DEFINE directive.
If the argument was not defined and was not an include file parameter,
then this function returns a value of 0. The value returned refers
to the definition that is current at the point of the call.

See also

{ } Include file reference, &GLOBAL-DEFINE preprocessor directive, &SCOPED-DEFINE preprocessor directive




DEFINE PARAMETER statement

Defines a run-time parameter in an ABL procedure (internal or
external), Windows dynamic link library (DLL) routine, UNIX shared library routine,
or ActiveX control event procedure.

Note: To define
run-time parameters of a user-defined function, or a method within a class
(including constructors), see the Parameter definition syntax reference entry.

Each parameter requires its own DEFINE statement. The parameters
must be specified in the RUN statement in the same order they are defined with
DEFINE statements. In addition, the parameter types (INPUT, OUTPUT, INPUT-OUTPUT,
RETURN, TABLE, TABLE-HANDLE, DATASET, DATASET-HANDLE, and BUFFER) specified in the
DEFINE and RUN statements must agree. The corresponding data types and run-time
values must also be compatible enough to allow the AVM to perform any necessary
conversions.

Syntax

INPUT PARAMETER: Defines a parameter that gets its value from one of the
    following sources:

     If the calling procedure runs the current (called)
      procedure synchronously, the value comes from the corresponding
      INPUT parameter of the RUN statement.
     If the current
      procedure or method is specified to handle the PROCEDURE-COMPLETE
      callback event for an asynchronous remote procedure, the value comes
      from the corresponding OUTPUT or INPUT-OUTPUT parameter of the
      remote procedure.

OUTPUT PARAMETER: Defines a parameter that returns a value to one of the
    following destinations:

     If the calling procedure runs the current (called)
      procedure synchronously, the value is returned to the corresponding
      OUTPUT parameter of the RUN statement in the calling procedure.
     If the calling
      procedure runs the current (called) procedure as an asynchronous
      remote procedure, the value is returned to the corresponding INPUT
      parameter of the event procedure or method specified to handle the
      PROCEDURE COMPLETE event for the current procedure.

INPUT-OUTPUT PARAMETER: Defines a parameter that receives an initial value passed
    from the calling procedure that can be subsequently modified by the called
    procedure. The calling procedure cannot pass a literal value. The called
    procedure returns the modified value to one of the following destinations:

     If the calling procedure runs the current (called)
      procedure synchronously, the value is returned to the corresponding
      INPUT-OUTPUT parameter of the RUN statement in the calling
      procedure.
     If the calling
      procedure runs the current (called) procedure as an asynchronous
      remote procedure, the value is returned to the corresponding INPUT
      parameter of the event procedure or method specified to handle the
      PROCEDURE COMPLETE event for the current procedure.

RETURN PARAMETER: Defines a parameter that holds the return value of a DLL or
    UNIX shared library routine. When the DLL routine returns, the value of this
    parameter is passed back to the calling procedure. You can only have one
    RETURN parameter per routine.

parameter: Identifies the name of the parameter you want to define.

AS [ HANDLE TO ]primitive-type-name: Specifies a primitive type for the parameter.

    For ABL procedures,
    primitive-type-name can specify
    any built-in primitive type used to define variables. For more
    information on the available primitive types, see the Data types
    reference entry. For more information on defining primitive type
    variables, see the DEFINE VARIABLE statement reference entry.

    For DLL
    or UNIX shared library routines, primitive-type-name can specify an ABL DLL data type. ABL
    DLL data types include the built-in ABL data types CHARACTER and MEMPTR,
    Windows DLL-equivalent data types, and UNIX shared library data types.

    The following table shows how Windows DLL and
    UNIX shared library data types map to ABL DLL data types.

    Table 1. Data types for DLL and UNIX shared library
    routine parameters

    CAUTION: For CHARACTER parameters, the AVM always
    passes the routine a pointer to the character or character string value
    rather than the value itself. If the routine modifies the value, it can
    also modify the AVM memory outside the bounds of the CHARACTER value
    with unpredictable results. For this reason, ABL does not allow you to
    use OUTPUT or RETURN for CHARACTER or LONGCHAR parameters, as well as
    CHARACTER or LONGCHAR array parameters, and does not recommend you use
    INPUT-OUTPUT for CHARACTER or LONGCHAR parameters. Rather, pass the
    character string as a MEMPTR parameter. For more information, see OpenEdge Programming Interfaces.

    Note: You cannot use RETURN for any type of array parameter.

    To indicate that the DLL or UNIX shared library
    parameter is a pointer to a value rather than the value itself, use the
    HANDLE TO option. The HANDLE TO option is required when the DLL routine
    expects a pointer to the value. Note that the CHARACTER data type
    implies the HANDLE TO option, whether or not you specify it.

    For ActiveX control event procedures, primitive-type-name can specify the
    built-in ABL data type that maps to the COM object data type of an
    ActiveX event parameter. The following table shows how the COM object
    data types for event parameters (shown as ActiveX data types) map to ABL
    data types.

    Table 2. Data types for ActiveX control event
    procedures

AS [ CLASS ]{object-type-name}: Defines the parameter as an object reference with the data
    type of a class or interface. The default value of the parameter is the
    Unknown value (?). You cannot assign an
    initial value using the INITIAL option.

object-type-name: Specifies the type name of an ABL or.NET class or
    interface. Specify an object type name using the syntax described in the
    Type-name syntax
    reference entry. With an appropriate USING statement, you can also specify a
    class or interface name alone, without the qualifying package or
    namespace.

    You cannot directly specify the type name
    of a.NET mapped object type (such as System.Int32). To define a
    parameter that matches a.NET mapped type, you must define it as the
    corresponding ABL primitive type (primitive-type-name).

CLASS: If the specified class or interface type name conflicts
    with an abbreviation for a built-in primitive type name, such as INT for
    INTEGER, you must specify the CLASS keyword.

    For a class
    or interface return value, ABL passes an object reference associated
    with the class or interface, not a class instance itself. For more
    information on object references, see the Class-based object reference reference
    entry.

LIKE, CASE SENSITIVE, FORMAT, DECIMALS, INITIAL, COLUMN-LABEL, LABEL, NO-UNDO: For descriptions of these options, see the DEFINE VARIABLE statement reference
    entry.

EXTENT [constant ]: Defines the parameter as an array of data elements, where
    the element data type is specified by the AS primitive-type-name option, the LIKE field option, or the AS object-type-name option. This option can
    specify an array parameter as either determinate (has a defined number of
    elements) or indeterminate (has an undefined number of elements). To define
    a determinate array parameter, specify the EXTENT option with the constant argument. This optional argument is
    an integer value that represents the number of data elements in the array
    parameter. To define an indeterminate array parameter, specify the EXTENT
    option without the constant argument.

    The EXTENT is part of the parameter data type. For more
    information, see the Type-name syntax reference entry.

    For more
    information about arrays, see Work with one-dimensional
    arrays in Basic ABL.

    You cannot pass an indeterminate array with no size to
    a COM object, DLL routine, or UNIX shared library routine.

    If you want to define a parameter that is like an array
    variable or field, using the LIKE option, but if you do not want the
    parameter to be an array, you can use EXTENT 0 to indicate a non-array
    parameter.

    If you are using the AS option and you
    do not use the EXTENT option (or you specify constant as 0), the parameter is not an array parameter.
    If you are using the LIKE field
    option and you do not use the EXTENT option, the parameter uses the
    extent defined for the database field you name (if any).

PARAMETER BUFFER buffer-name FOR [TEMP-TABLE]table-name[PRESELECT]: Defines a buffer parameter, where buffer-name is the name you specify for the buffer and
    table-name is the name of a
    temp-table or database table to which the buffer is attached. You can pass a
    buffer associated with a database table to a buffer parameter. You cannot
    pass a work table to a buffer parameter. A buffer parameter is always
    INPUT-OUTPUT. You cannot pass buffer parameters to the application server.

    Use the TEMP-TABLE option to define a buffer parameter
    for a temp-table when the temp-table has the same name as a database
    table. Otherwise, ABL associates the buffer with the database table by
    default. Note that you can define a temp-table buffer parameter only for
    an internal procedure that you define in an external procedure where the
    temp-table specified by table-name
    is already defined.

    If you use the PRESELECT
    option and access the buffer parameter in a DO or REPEAT block, the AVM
    creates an internal list of the records selected. The PRESELECT option
    tells the AVM to apply that internal list to the buffer you
    define.

    Note: Buffer parameters are intended for database tables and
    only allow you to view an individual buffer for a temp-table. Use a
    TABLE BY-REFERENCE parameter if you need more
    functionality.

TABLE FOR temp-table-name: Defines a temp-table parameter.

    You can
    pass a temp-table parameter to both local and remote procedures. The AVM
    passes the parameter by value, by default. That is, the caller and the
    called routine each have their own instance of the temp-table. When you
    invoke the RUN statement, the AVM deep-copies the parameter from one
    instance to the other. The table that is copied depends on whether the
    parameter is INPUT, OUTPUT, or INPUT-OUTPUT. When you pass a temp-table
    as an INPUT parameter, the AVM replaces the receiving instance with the
    source instance, by default. You can also append the copied instance to
    the end of the receiving instance by specifying the APPEND option. For
    more information about the APPEND option, see the option description
    later in this reference entry.

    When passing a
    temp-table parameter to a local procedure, you can override the default
    deep copy and pass the parameter by reference or by binding (that is, by
    specifying the parameter in a RUN statement using either the
    BY-REFERENCE or BIND option). Passing a temp-table parameter by
    reference or by binding allows the caller and the called routine to
    access the same object instance (instead of deep-copying the parameter).

    Note: When you specify the BIND option in the
    DEFINE PARAMETER statement, you must also specify the BIND option in the
    RUN statement.

    For more information about
    passing a temp-table parameter by reference or by binding, see the Parameter passing syntax
    reference entry. For more information about temp-table parameters, see
    Develop ABL Applications.

TABLE-HANDLE temp-table-handle: Defines a temp-table handle parameter.

DATASET dataset-name: Defines a compile-time defined ProDataSet object
    parameter.

    You can pass a ProDataSet object parameter
    to both local and remote procedures. The AVM passes the parameter by
    value, by default. That is, the caller and the called routine each have
    their own instance of the object. When you invoke the RUN statement, the
    AVM deep-copies the parameter from one instance to the other. The
    ProDataSet that is copied depends on whether the parameter is INPUT,
    OUTPUT, or INPUT-OUTPUT. When you pass a ProDataSet as an INPUT
    parameter, the AVM replaces the receiving instance with the source
    instance, by default. You can also append the copied instance to the end
    of the receiving instance by specifying the APPEND option. For more
    information about the APPEND option, see the option description later in
    this reference entry.

    When passing a ProDataSet
    object parameter to a local procedure, you can override the default deep
    copy and pass the parameter by reference or by binding (that is, by
    specifying the parameter in a RUN statement using either the
    BY-REFERENCE or BIND option). Passing a ProDataSet object parameter by
    reference or by binding allows the caller and the called routine to
    access the same object instance (instead of deep-copying the parameter).

    Note: When you specify the BIND option in the
    DEFINE PARAMETER statement, you must also specify the BIND option in the
    RUN statement.

    For more information about
    passing a ProDataSet object parameter by reference or by binding, see
    the Parameter passing syntax
    reference entry. For more information on ProDataSet object parameters,
    see Use ProDataSets.

DATASET-HANDLE dataset-handle: Defines a ProDataSet object handle parameter.

APPEND: Specifies whether or not to append the data from a source
    instance to the receiving instance of a passed temp-table or ProDataSet
    parameter. To append input parameter data, specify the APPEND option in the
    DEFINE PARAMETER statement. To append output parameter data, specify the
    APPEND option in the RUN statement.

BIND: Indicates that a TABLE, TABLE-HANDLE, DATASET, or
    DATASET-HANDLE parameter binds a reference-only object in one routine to an
    object instance defined and instantiated in another local routine.

    When you define a reference-only object in the calling
    routine, and you want to bind that object definition to an object
    instance in the called routine, define the parameter by specifying the
    BIND option in an INPUT or INPUT-OUTPUT parameter definition. When you
    define a reference-only object in the called routine, and you want to
    bind that object definition to an object instance in the calling
    routine, define the parameter by specifying the BIND option in an OUTPUT
    parameter definition. In either case, the reference-only object
    definition remains bound to the object instance until the routine
    containing the reference-only object definition is deleted or
    terminates.

    CAUTION: Do not delete the object or routine to
    which a reference-only object is bound, or you might be left with
    references to an object that no longer exists.

    You can bind multiple reference-only object definitions
    to the same object instance. You can also bind a single reference-only
    object definition to the same object instance multiple times without
    generating an error. However, you cannot bind a single reference-only
    object definition to multiple object instances.

    When passing one of these parameters to a remote procedure, the AVM
    ignores the BIND option and deep-copies the parameter based on the
    specified parameter mode.

    For more information
    about passing these parameters by binding, see the Parameter passing syntax reference
    entry.

BY-VALUE: Specified for an INPUT, OUTPUT, or INPUT-OUTPUT TABLE,
    TABLE-HANDLE, DATASET, or DATASET-HANDLE parameter in a called routine, this
    option forces the parameter to be passed to the local routine by value,
    which overrides any BY-REFERENCE option in the corresponding routine
    invocation. For more information on BY-REFERENCE, see the Parameter passing syntax reference
    entry.

Examples

In the following examples, the r-runpar.p procedure runs a subprocedure called r-param.p and passes the subprocedure an INPUT
parameter. The subprocedure r-param.p displays
the INPUT parameter.

r-runpar.p

r-param.p

In the following example, the r-runpr1.p procedure runs a subprocedure called r-param1.p. This example illustrates the use of
multiple parameters and shows that the parameters must be passed in the proper order
and must be of the same data type. Note that if you do not specify a parameter type
in the RUN statement, the AVM assumes it is an input parameter.

r-runpr1.p

r-param1.p

In the following example, the r-runpr2.p procedure displays information from a database table and
assigns the value of a database field to a variable called io-param. The variable is
passed as an INPUT-OUTPUT parameter to a subprocedure called r-param2.p. The subprocedure r-param2.p performs a calculation on the
INPUT-OUTPUT parameter, then passes it back to the main procedure. The r-runpr2.p assigns the value io-param to a database
field, then displays io-param.

r-runpr2.p

r-param2.p

The following example uses a buffer parameter. The procedure
r-bufp.p passes the Customer buffer to the
getCustomer internal procedure, which attempts
to find a record using that buffer.

r-bufp.p

The following example defines parameters for the DLL routine,
MessageBox, which displays a message on
the screen:

r-dllex1.p

Notes

 All procedure parameters are normally passed by value, by
  default. This means that for any INPUT-OUTPUT or OUTPUT parameter, the field or
  variable that receives the output value is not set by the called procedure until
  the procedure returns without error. An exception is made for local DATASET,
  DATASET-HANDLE, TABLE, and TABLE-HANDLE parameters, which you may pass by
  reference or by binding by specifying the parameter in a RUN statement using
  either the BY-REFERENCE or BIND option. If you specify the BIND option in the
  RUN statement, you must also specify the BIND option in the DEFINE PARAMETER
  statement.

  For more information about passing parameters
  by reference or by binding, see the Parameter passing syntax reference entry.
 You cannot pass a BLOB or CLOB field as a parameter. To pass a
  BLOB or CLOB field as a parameter, you must include the field in a temp-table or
  convert the field to its MEMPTR or LONGCHAR counterpart, respectively.
 Buffer parameters are scoped in the same way as shared buffers.
  They also affect cursors defined in the calling procedure in the same way as
  shared buffers.
 For DLL or UNIX shared library routine declarations:
• The LIKE field
    option can only specify a database field of type CHARACTER or a variable
    of type CHARACTER or MEMPTR.
• The COLUMN, COLUMN-LABEL, DECIMALS, INITIAL, FORMAT,
    LABEL, and NO-UNDO options have no effect.
 You cannot pass a DATE, DATETIME, or DATETIME-TZ as a parameter
  to or from a DLL routine or a UNIX shared library routine.
 You can pass a LONGCHAR as a parameter to a DLL routine or a
  UNIX shared library routine. When passing a LONGCHAR parameter, the AVM passes
  only the text string (not the code page information). You are responsible for
  setting the code page of a LONGCHAR parameter.
 You can pass an array of type INTEGER, INT64, or DECIMAL as a
  parameter to or from a DLL routine or a UNIX shared library routine. You can
  pass an array of type CHARACTER to (not from) a DLL routine or a UNIX shared
  library routine.
 You cannot pass a variable or array that contains the Unknown
  value (?) to a DLL.
 RETURN parameters are supported only for DLL or UNIX shared
  library routines. The RETURN parameter type must match the OUTPUT parameter that
  returns the DLL function value in the RUN statement for the routine. You cannot
  pass an array as a RETURN parameter to DLL or UNIX shared library routines. Use
  a MEMPTR instead.
 If you specify a RETURN parameter as MEMPTR to return a
  character string, use the GET-STRING function to extract the CHARACTER
  value.
 For more information on DLL routine parameters and how they map
  to ABL data types, see the topics on DLLs in OpenEdge
  Programming Interfaces.
 You cannot pass a MEMPTR as a parameter to or from a COM
  object.
 You can pass a LONGCHAR, a DATETIME, a DATETIME-TZ, and an
  array as a parameter to or from a COM object.

  When passing a
  LONGCHAR parameter to a COM object, the AVM passes only the text string (not
  the code page information). When receiving a text string from a COM object
  into a LONGCHAR parameter, the AVM converts the text string to the code page
  associated with the LONGCHAR parameter only if the LONGCHAR has a fixed code
  page. Otherwise, the AVM sets the LONGCHAR code page to UTF-16. If the AVM
  cannot convert a LONGCHAR, it raises a run-time error.

  When passing a DATETIME or DATETIME-TZ parameter to a COM
  object, the AVM represents the time to the millisecond. When passing a
  DATETIME-TZ parameter to a COM object, the AVM first converts the
  DATETIME-TZ value relative to the local session's date and time, and then
  drops the time zone.

  When receiving a date from a
  COM object into a DATETIME or DATETIME-TZ parameter, the AVM represents the
  time to the millisecond. When receiving a date from a COM object into a
  DATETIME-TZ parameter, the AVM sets the time zone to the local session's
  time zone.
 For more information on ActiveX event parameters, or using COM
  objects, see OpenEdge Programming Interfaces.
 When passing temp-table or ProDataSet parameters, the caller and callee
  parameters must be compatible. Compatible temp-tables must have the same number
  of fields, with each field matching in data type, extent, and position, but not
  in field name or any other field attribute. The temp-tables must have the same
  number of indexes, with index components matching in every way (except in field
  name), and the index names must also match. The temp-table names do not have to
  match. Compatible ProDataSets must have the same number of member buffers, in
  the same order, and the tables of those buffers must match in the same way as
  compatible temp-tables. Names of either the ProDataSet or its buffers do not
  have to match.
 For dynamic temp-table parameters:
• If the parameter is INPUT TABLE-HANDLE, the temp-table
    definition behind the handle plus the temp-table contents are sent from
    the caller to the called routine. The called routine may have either the
    dynamic INPUT TABLE-HANDLE or the compile-time defined INPUT TABLE as a
    matching parameter.
• When running remotely with the application server, if
    the parameter is INPUT TABLE-HANDLE, a new instance of the temp-table is
    created along with its handle, completely separate from the caller's
    table, and is populated with the contents from the caller's table.
• You can override this default behavior to allow the
    calling procedure and the called procedure to access the same object
    instance by passing the TABLE-HANDLE parameter by reference or by
    binding (that is, by specifying the parameter in a RUN statement
    using either the BY-REFERENCE or BIND option). If you specify the
    BIND option in the RUN statement, you must also specify the BIND
    option in the DEFINE PARAMETER statement.
• The OUTPUT TABLE-HANDLE parameter, just like any other
    OUTPUT variable, cannot change the data in the caller procedure: in this
    case, the definition of the temp-table).
• If the parameter is OUTPUT TABLE-HANDLE, the called
    routine sends back the definition behind the handle along with the
    contents of the output temp-table. In the caller, if the original handle
    was the Unknown value (?), a new
    instance of the temp-table is created and populated with the output
    contents. The temp-table object is created in the default widget-pool of
    the caller's OpenEdge session. To avoid memory leaks, the temp-table
    object must be manually destroyed. For more information on deleting
    objects, see the reference entry for the DELETE OBJECT statement.
• If the original handle is not the Unknown value
    (?), the caller's existing
    table must match the table being received from the called
    routine.
• If the APPEND option is used, the new data is added to
    the existing table's data.
• If the parameter is INPUT-OUTPUT TABLE-HANDLE, a
    combination of the above occurs.
• If you call a remote
    procedure asynchronously (using the ASYNCHRONOUS option of the RUN
    statement) and pass a parameter as OUTPUT TABLE-HANDLE temp-table-handle APPEND, the event
    procedure or method must specify a corresponding DEFINE INPUT PARAMETER
    TABLE-HANDLE FOR temp-table-handle
    APPEND statement, and temp-table-handle must be global to both the calling
    procedure and the event procedure or method.
 If you define an INPUT TABLE parameter for an asynchronous
  event procedure with a data type that is different from the data type of the
  corresponding OUTPUT TABLE parameter passed from the application server, any
  failure to convert the passed value causes the event procedure or method to fail
  and the AVM to display an error message on the client.
 The AVM creates the temp-table object for an OUTPUT
  TABLE-HANDLE parameter in the session's default widget pool. Remember to delete
  this object at the appropriate point to avoid memory leaks.
 You cannot specify a ProDataSet object or ProDataSet object
  handle as a parameter for an asynchronous remote procedure.
 For dynamic ProDataSet object parameters:
• If the parameter is INPUT DATASET-HANDLE, the
    ProDataSet object definition behind the handle plus the ProDataSet
    object contents are sent from the caller to the called routine. The
    called routine may have either the dynamic INPUT DATASET-HANDLE or the
    compile-time defined INPUT DATASET as a matching parameter.
• If the parameter is INPUT DATASET-HANDLE, a new
    instance of the ProDataSet object is created along with its handle,
    completely separate from the caller's table, and is populated with the
    contents from the caller's table.
• You can override this default behavior to allow the
    calling procedure and the called procedure to access the same object
    instance by passing the DATASET-HANDLE parameter by reference or by
    binding (that is, by specifying the parameter in a RUN statement
    using either the BY-REFERENCE or BIND option). If you specify the
    BIND option in the RUN statement, you must also specify the BIND
    option in the DEFINE PARAMETER statement.
• If the parameter is OUTPUT DATASET-HANDLE, the handle
    plus the definition behind the handle are sent from the caller to the
    called routine. The called routine may have either the dynamic OUTPUT
    DATASET-HANDLE or the compile-time defined OUTPUT DATASET as a matching
    parameter.
• If the parameter is OUTPUT DATASET-HANDLE, and the
    caller's handle is the Unknown value (?), no definition is sent to the called routine.
• If the parameter is OUTPUT DATASET-HANDLE, the called
    routine sends back the definition behind the handle along with the
    contents of the output ProDataSet object. In the caller, if the original
    handle is the Unknown value (?), a new
    instance of the ProDataSet object is created and populated with the
    output contents. If the original handle is not the Unknown value
    (?), the caller's existing object
    must match the object being received from the called routine.
• If the APPEND option is used, the new data is added to
    the existing object's data.
• If the parameter is INPUT-OUTPUT DATASET-HANDLE, a
    combination of the above occurs.
• A BUFFER parameter cannot be a REFERENCE-ONLY buffer or a
  BEFORE-TABLE buffer. The use of them as a BUFFER type of parameter (as opposed
  to INPUT or OUTPUT) is a compiler error. Instead of passing the buffer, the
  buffer's table can be passed by-reference.

See also

DEFINE BUFFER statement, DEFINE VARIABLE statement, DELETE PROCEDURE statement, Parameter passing syntax, RUN statement, Type-name syntax, USING statement, VAR statement




DELETE PROCEDURE statement

Deletes an instance of a persistent procedure. The persistent procedure can be local or
remote.

Syntax

proc-handle: The handle of a local or remote persistent procedure. This is a
    variable, field, or expression of type HANDLE that contains a valid persistent procedure
    handle.

    For a proxy procedure handle, this statement deletes the
    handle immediately unless there is an outstanding asynchronous request on this handle
    (handle:ASYNC-REQUEST-COUNT is greater than zero (0)). If handle:ASYNC-REQUEST-COUNT is greater than zero (0), this statement raises the
    ERROR condition. Otherwise, the statement also
    sends a request to the application server to delete the corresponding remote
    persistent procedure on the application server. If the application server is executing
    any asynchronous requests ahead of it, the AVM queues the delete request (as with any
    asynchronous remote request) until the application server is available to handle
    it.

    Note: This same behavior occurs if the remote
    procedure deletes itself (using DELETE...THIS-PROCEDURE) on the application server.

NO-ERROR: The NO-ERROR option is used to prevent the statement from raising ERROR
    and displaying error messages.

Example

When you run the following procedure non-persistently, the procedure
creates a persistent instance of itself in addition to the non-persistent instance, creating
two query windows for the Customer table. Choosing the Cancel button in either window causes
the instance that owns that window to terminate. If the instance you terminate is
persistent, the Cancel button runs an internal procedure that executes the DELETE
PROCEDURE statement for that instance as specified by the
THIS-PROCEDURE system handle.

r-delprc.p

Notes

 To be valid for deletion, proc-handle
  must reference an active persistent procedure. You can use theVALID-HANDLE function and PERSISTENT procedure attribute to
  check the validity of proc-handle. Thus, both
  VALID-HANDLE(proc-handle) and
  proc-handle:PERSISTENT must be TRUE
  to delete the specified procedure. If either of these expressions is FALSE, the
  DELETE PROCEDURE statement raises the ERROR
  condition.
 When you delete a persistent procedure instance, its context goes out of
  scope and all allocated resources are returned to the system. In addition, it is removed
  from the chain of persistent procedures referenced by the FIRST-PROCEDURE
  and LAST-PROCEDURE attributes of the SESSION system
  handle.
 If you delete a persistent procedure instance while executing statements
  within that procedure, the DELETE PROCEDURE statement pends until the
  largest executing block in the persistent procedure terminates. Thus, if the
  DELETE PROCEDURE occurs while the main procedure block is executing
  (when the persistent procedure is called), the procedure is deleted when the procedure
  returns (as if it were non-persistent). If the DELETE PROCEDURE occurs
  during execution of a trigger or execution of an internal procedure that is called from
  another external procedure, the procedure is deleted after the trigger block or internal
  procedure returns. Note that while the delete is pending, the persistent procedure remains
  valid in the persistent procedure chain.
 The DELETE PROCEDURE statement will
  only delete the proxy handle on the client of a procedure run as single-run or singleton.
  This is because the AVM automatically deletes a single-run procedure after execution, and
  a singleton procedure may be running on multiple Progress Application Server (PAS) for
  OpenEdge instances.
• The DELETE PROCEDURE statement disconnects any local
  buffers established by the procedure. In addition, any buffers passed as parameters to a
  persistent procedure are treated as local buffers. While all cursor positioning
  established on these buffers by the persistent procedure is lost, there is no affect on
  the original buffers passed as parameters from the caller. Note that all buffers are
  validated before being disconnected (which might cause database write triggers to
  execute). If the validation fails, the DELETE PROCEDURE statement raises
  the ERROR condition and pends the deletion until the validation succeeds
  and all database write triggers have completed.

See also

RUN statement, THIS-PROCEDURE system handle, NO-ERROR option, VALID-HANDLE function




DO statement

Groups statements into a single block, optionally specifying processing
services or block properties. Use an END statement to end a
DO block.

Syntax

This is the syntax for a DO block:

FOR record[, record]...: Names the buffer you want to work with in the block and scopes the
    buffer to the block. The scope of a record determines when the buffer for that record is
    cleared and written back to the database. See BL Essentials
    for more information on record scoping.

    To work with a record in a
    table defined for multiple databases, you must qualify the record's table name with
    the database name. See Record phrase for more information.

preselect-phrase: The PRESELECT phrase finds selected records from one
    or more tables. You can access those preselected records with statements such as
    FIND NEXT.

    For more information, see the PRESELECT phrase.

query-tuning-phrase: Allows programmatic control over the execution of a DataServer
    query.

    For more information, see the OpenEdge DataServer Guides
    (Use the Microsoft SQL Data Server and Use the Oracle Data Server).

variable = expression1 TO expression2 [ BY k ]: The name of a field or variable whose value is incremented in a loop.
    expression1 is the starting value for variable on the first iteration of the loop. k is the amount to add to variableafter each iteration; it must be a constant. k defaults to 1 if not specified.
    variable, expression1 and expression2 must be integers.

    When variable exceeds expression2 (or is less than expression2
     if kis negative) the loop ends. Since
    expression1 is compared to expression2 at the start of the first iteration of the
    block, the block can be executed zero times. expression2 is re-evaluated on each iteration of the block.

WHILE expression: Indicates that the DO block continues processing the
    statements within it. Using the WHILE option turns a
    DO block into an iterating block. The block iterates as long as the
    condition specified by the expression is TRUE. The expression is any combination of
    constants, operators, field names, and variable names that yield a logical value.

TRANSACTION: Identifies the DO block as a system
    transaction block. The AVM starts a system transaction for each iteration of a
    transaction block if there is not already an active system transaction. See Develop ABL Applications for more information on
    transactions.

stop-after-phrase: Specifies a time-out value (in seconds) for the block. This is the
    syntax for the STOP-AFTER phrase:

    For more information see STOP-AFTER phrase.

on-endkey-phrase: Describes the processing that takes place when the ENDKEY
    condition occurs during a block. This is the syntax for the ON ENDKEY
    phrase:: | |

    For more information, see the ON ENDKEY phrase.

on-error-phrase: Describes the processing that takes place when there is an error
    during a block. This is the syntax for ON ERROR phrase:

    For more information, see the ON ERROR phrase.

on-quit-phrase: Describes the processing that takes place when a
    QUIT statement is executed during a block. This is the syntax for the
    ON QUIT phrase:

    For more information, see the ON QUIT phrase.

on-stop-phrase: Describes the processing that takes place when the
    STOP condition occurs during a block. This is the syntax for the
    ON STOP phrase:

    For more information, see the ON STOP phrase.

frame-phrase: Specifies the overall layout and processing properties of a frame.
    This is the syntax for the frame phrase:

    For more information, see the Frame phrase.

Example

This procedure goes through the Customer table and
reduces the CreditLimit to 80000 for those Customers that exceed this
amount. The procedure uses a simple DO block to process two statements if
the CreditLimit is over 80000. Simple DO blocks are most
useful for grouping statements together for conditional situations, such as
IF...THEN...ELSE.

r-do.p

Notes

 Use a DO statement rather than a
  REPEAT statement when you loop through elements of an array. This is
  more efficient since the AVM does not create separate subtransactions within the
  transaction.

  The first example, which uses DO, is
  more efficient than the second:

 For SpeedScript, the on-endkey-phrase and the
  on-quit-phrase do not apply.

See also

FIND statement, FOR statement, Frame phrase, ON ENDKEY phrase, ON ERROR phrase, ON QUIT phrase, ON STOP phrase, Record phrase, REPEAT statement, STOP-AFTER phrase




DYNAMIC-FUNCTION function

Invokes a user-defined function. The AVM evaluates the
name of the function (and the procedure handle, if any) at run time.

Syntax

function-name: A CHARACTER expression that returns the name of a user-defined function.
    The AVM evaluates function-name at run time.

IN proc-handle: An expression that returns a handle to the procedure that defines the
    function. The AVM evaluates proc-handle at run
    time.

param1, param2,...: Parameters of the user-defined function. You must supply names
    of actual data items—actual parameter names—not CHARACTER expressions
    that return parameter names.

    Note: ABL cannot check
    the mode and type of the parameters at compile time, since the AVM
    does not evaluate function-name until run time.

Example

The following procedure demonstrates the DYNAMIC-FUNCTION
function:

See also

FUNCTION statement




END statement

Indicates the end of a block started with a CASE, CATCH, CLASS, CONSTRUCTOR, DESTRUCTOR,
DO, ENUM, FINALLY, FOR, FUNCTION, INTERFACE, METHOD, PROCEDURE, or REPEAT statement or the
end of an EDITING phrase, Trigger phrase, or the implementation of a GET or SET property
accessor.

Syntax

[ CASE | CATCH | CLASS | CONSTRUCTOR | DESTRUCTOR | ENUM | FINALLY | FUNCTION | GET | INTERFACE | METHOD | PROCEDURE | SET | TRIGGERS ]: An option that can appear following any END statement that terminates
    the block for a statement or phrase that is specified with the same name.

Example

This
procedure contains two blocks, each ending with the END statement:

r-end.p

Notes

 Two
  blocks, the CATCH block and the FINALLY block, are called end
  blocks because they must appear after the last line of executable
  code and before the END statement. CATCH blocks must appear before
  FINALLY blocks. See the entries for these two blocks for information
  about usage.
 If you do not use any END statements in a procedure, ABL assumes that
  all blocks end at the end of the procedure.
• If you use any END statements in a procedure, you must use one
  END statement for every block in the procedure.

See also

CASE statement, CATCH statement, CLASS statement, CONSTRUCTOR statement, DEFINE PROPERTY statement, DESTRUCTOR statement, DO statement, EDITING phrase, ENUM statement,FINALLY statement, FOR statement, FUNCTION statement, INTERFACE statement, METHOD statement, PROCEDURE statement, REPEAT statement, Trigger phrase




ERROR function

Indicates whether an error occurred during
a FILL or SAVE-ROW-CHANGES operation on the specified ProDataSet
temp-table buffer.

Syntax

buffer-name: The name of a ProDataSet temp-table buffer.

Notes

 The
  ERROR function corresponds to the ERROR attribute.
 You can invoke the ERROR function from within a WHERE clause (unlike
  the corresponding attribute).




Expression

A combination of one or more terms and operators that evaluate to a single value of a specific data type.

Syntax

unary-operator: Any ABL unary operator that can precede the specified term,
    including the:
• Unary positive operator
• Unary negative operator
     NOT operator (logical)
     NOT operator (bitwise)

(: Begins a group of one or more terms and operators that are evaluated
    together before any terms or operators to the left of the ‘('. If
    specified, the group must be terminated with a ‘)'.

term: Any one of the following ABL elements that represents or returns
    a value with a data type that is compatible with the expression
    data type, including:

     A literal (constant) value represented
      according to its data type (Data types)
     A database or temp-table field reference (Record phrase, DEFINE TEMP-TABLE statement)
     A reference to a variable scoped to
      the current procedure, user-defined function, or method of a class, or to an
      accessible class-based variable data member, including a subscripted or
      unsubscripted array reference (VAR statement,
      DEFINE VARIABLE statement, Class-based data member access)
     A reference to a parameter (of any mode) defined for the current procedure,
      user-defined function, or method of a class, including a subscripted
      or unsubscripted array reference (DEFINE PARAMETER statement)
     A reference to a readable class-based property or COM property, including
      a subscripted or unsubscripted array reference (DEFINE PROPERTY statement, Class-based property access, Accessing COM object properties and methods)
     Readable handle attribute reference (Accessing handle attributes and methods)
     Readable system handle reference (Handle Reference)
     An ABL built-in or user-defined function call (FUNCTION statement)
     A handle method, non-VOID COM method, or non-VOID class-based
      method call (Accessing handle attributes and methods, Accessing COM object properties and methods, Class-based method call)
     An (recursive)

      Note
      that each term of the expression can itself be
      formed from an expression, resulting in multiple possible combinations
      of basic terms and operators, with or without grouping parentheses. Note
      that each of these elements, except for a more complex Expression, represents a basic term of the expression.

binary-operator: Any ABL binary operator that can separate two term elements,
    each of which must have a data type that is compatible with an expression
    that can result when applying the specified binary-operator to
    the specified term elements, including the:
• Addition operator
• Concatenation operator
• Date addition operator
• Datetime addition operator
• Subtraction operator
• Date subtraction operator
• Datetime subtraction operator
     \ Multiplication operator
     / Division operator
     AND operator (bitwise)
     AND operator (logical)
     BEGINS operator
     EQ or = operator
     GE or >= operator
     GT or > operator
     LE or operator
     OR operator (logical)
     OR operator (bitwise)
     XOR operator (bitwise)): Terminates a group of one or more terms and operators that are evaluated together
    before any terms or operators to the right of the ‘)'. If specified, the group must
    begin with a ‘('.

For information on the precedence of operator evaluation, see Table 1.

Example

The
procedure, r-expression.p, evaluates an expression to
identify the value of an element in an ABL single-dimensional array (iArray)
that is specified using two-dimensional coordinates (iDim1 and iDim2):

r-expression.p

This procedure contains several expressions
in the DO statements as well as in the MESSAGE statement. The expression
that evaluates the index on the term, iArray, using
a two-dimensional coordinate is shown in bold. This expression first
evaluates the subtraction (-) operation in parentheses,
then, in order by operator precedence, evaluates the multiplication
() operation followed by the addition operation
(+).

Notes

 A
  series of terms and operators in an expression, with no grouping
  parentheses (‘(' and ‘)'), evaluate in an order of precedence determined
  by the operators. Thus, operators of higher precedence evaluate
  before operators of lower precedence, and operators of the same precedence
  evaluate in order from left to right. Otherwise, a series of terms and
  operators within a particular grouping parentheses evaluate according
  to their precedence before any series of terms and operators outside
  that grouping parentheses. The following table shows the order of precedence
  for ABL operators identified by function and symbol.

  Table 1. ABL operator precedence

  Note that before the ABL Virtual Machine (AVM)
  applies the operators to an expression, it evaluates all the basic
  terms (variables, properties, methods, functions, etc.) of the expression
  individually from left to right.
 If you do not include any white space in expressions, ABL does
  not distinguish between a hyphen (-) used as an operator and a hyphen
  used as part of an ABL built-in or user-defined element name. In
  order to enable ABL to identify a hyphen used as an operator, you
  must add at least one space between the hyphen and the term or terms
  that the operator evaluates.
 An expression of the appropriate data type can appear as a variable option
  of any ABL statement that takes an expression, except where specified.
  Expressions commonly appear in the Assignment (=) statement, ASSIGN statement, and
  as arguments to INPUT parameters of procedures, functions, and methods
  (Parameter passing syntax). Expressions cannot appear where a variable syntax
  option accepts only a quoted string, a user-defined name (such as
  a procedure or variable name), or a compile-time constant. Other
  restrictions might also apply.
 You cannot directly reference a BLOB or CLOB database or temp-table
  field as a term in an expression, except as specifically provided in
  a given ABL statement or built-in function. Generally, you must
  first convert the BLOB or CLOB to a MEMPTR or LONGCHAR data type using
  the COPY-LOB statement,
  then use the result in the expression.
 When a run-time error occurs in any part of an expression, the AVM
  stops evaluating the expression and raises the ERROR condition on the statement that
  contains the expression. If the error occurs in a basic term of the expression, because
  the AVM first evaluates all the basic terms of an expression from left to right, all such
  terms (especially, methods and functions) prior to the term that raises ERROR will
  complete execution. However, any data element set to receive the result of the expression
  evaluation remains unchanged, for example, when the expression is on the right-hand side
  of an Assignment (=) statement or is passed to
  an INPUT parameter. The ERROR condition from an expression can be handled, like any
  statement error, as appropriate for the specified statement and block error processing,
  including use of statement NO-ERROR options, ON ERROR phrases, and CATCH statements to
  handle any error messages and error objects returned from the expression. For more
  information, see ABL Error Handling.

See also

Assignment (=) statement, ASSIGN statement, CATCH statement, COPY-LOB statement, Data types, ERROR-STATUS system handle, Parameter passing syntax




FINALLY statement

Defines a final end block for any ABL block, which
contains code that must run regardless of an error or STOP condition. An end block is an ABL
block that can occur only within another block. The block containing the end block is known
as the associated block. End blocks must occur between the last
line of executable code in the associated block and its END statement.

The purpose of a FINALLY block is to hold clean-up code that must execute regardless of
what else executed in the associated block. It may include code to delete dynamic objects,
write to logs, close outputs, and other routine tasks.

A FINALLY block will run on each iteration of a block, even if that
iteration resulted in an error or STOP condition.

This is the syntax for the FINALLY statement and its related blocks:

Syntax

block-statements: All of the statements of an enclosing associated ABL block, including
    an external procedure block, though a procedure block has no block-end-statement. All ABL blocks other than a simple DO block (one
    without TRANSACTION or an ON phrase) can have a FINALLY block.

finally-logic: All statements allowed in a FINALLY block, which can include any valid
    ABL statement. For more information on FINALLY block execution, see the Notes for this reference
    entry.

block-end-statement: The END statement terminating the enclosing associated block. This
    applies to all ABL blocks except for a main external procedure block, which has no
    terminating END statement.

Examples

As
shown in r-finally01.p, the FINALLY block executes before
any flow-of-control (LEAVE, NEXT, RETRY, RETURN, or THROW) options
are executed for the associated block. For iterating blocks, the
FINALLY block executes after each iteration of the block.

r-finally01.p

Output:

In r-finally02.p, after
ERROR is raised, execution goes to the CATCH block and then to the
FINALLY block.

r-finally02.p

Output:

Notes

 There can be only one FINALLY block in any associated block. The FINALLY
  statement must come after all other executable statements in the associated block and
  before the END statement. If the associated block contains CATCH statements, the FINALLY
  block must come after all CATCH blocks. Note that the FINALLY statement can be used in a block with no CATCH blocks.
 The FINALLY block will not execute if a QUIT statement is in effect and it is not
  handled.
 Since it executes after an invoked CATCH block, the FINALLY
  block can also be used to perform common post-CATCH clean up tasks,
  rather than repeating common code in all the CATCH blocks present
  in the associated block.
 The transaction of the associated block is either complete (success)
  or undone (failure) when FINALLY executes. Therefore, any UNDO statement
  within the FINALLY block will only undo the work in the FINALLY block.
 The FINALLY block is an undoable block with implicit ON ERROR UNDO,
  THROW error handling, and like all blocks, FINALLY blocks implicitly throw all stop
  objects. You cannot explicitly override the ON ERROR directive for a FINALLY block. If a
  statement within the FINALLY block raises an error or STOP condition, by default, the
  FINALLY block will be undone, and the condition will be raised in the block that encloses
  the associated block of the FINALLY block. Error is not raised in the associated block.
  Otherwise, infinite looping could occur. To avoid having the error thrown out, you can use
  a CATCH block to handle the error as in other blocks.
 If the AVM detects an unhandled QUIT condition in the associated block,
  the FINALLY block does not run and the AVM processes the condition. If the associated
  block has an ON QUIT phrase, the QUIT condition is handled and cleared by the time the AVM
  is ready to execute the FINALLY block, and the FINALLY block executes. See the ON QUIT
  phrase reference entry for a description of QUIT condition behavior and handling.
• For more information on FINALLY blocks see ABL
  Error Handling.

See also

CATCH statement, ON ERROR phrase, ON QUIT phrase, ON STOP phrase, RETURN statement




FUNCTION statement

Defines or declares a prototype for a user-defined function, or declares a
Web service operation. The following syntax boxes describe the syntax for each use of the
statement, beginning with a user-defined function definition.

Syntax

Use the following syntax to declare a user-defined function prototype that
is defined later in the same procedure or that is defined in another external procedure:

Use the following syntax to declare a Web service operation.

function-name: The name of the function. You must avoid ABL reserved keywords. For a
    list of ABL keywords, see Keyword Index.

[ RETURNS ] return-type: Indicates the data type of the function return value. You can
    specify return-type as one of the following data
    types. For more information on each data type, see the Data types reference entry:

    object-type-name: Specifies the type name of an ABL or.NET class or interface.
        Specify an object type name using the syntax described in the Type-name syntax reference entry. With an
        appropriate USING statement,
        you can also specify a class or interface name alone, without the qualifying
        package or namespace.

    CLASS: If the specified class or interface type name conflicts with
        an abbreviation of a built-in primitive type name, such as INT for INTEGER, you
        must specify the CLASS keyword.

        For a class or interface return value, ABL returns an object
        reference associated with the class or interface, not a class instance itself.
        For more information on object references, see the Class-based object reference reference entry.

    EXTENT [constant ]: Defines the return value as an array of data elements with the
        specified primitive or object type. This option can specify an array return value
        as either determinate (has a defined number of elements) or indeterminate (has an
        undefined number of elements). For more information about determinate and
        indeterminate arrays, see Work with one-dimensional arrays in
        Basic ABL.

        If you do not use
        the EXTENT option (or you specify constant
        as 0), the return value is not an array return value.

    Note: If you invoke a function on an application server, the function cannot
    return a value as a LONGCHAR, MEMPTR, or CLASS.

PRIVATE: Indicates the following about the user-defined function:

     That it cannot be invoked from an external procedure—that is,
      from a procedure file external to the current procedure file.
     That the INTERNAL-ENTRIES attribute on the procedure
      that defines it does not provide its name (unless the procedure that defines it is
      the current procedure file).
     That the GET-SIGNATURE() method on the procedure
      that defines it does not provide its signature (unless the procedure that defines it
      is the current procedure file).

(parameter [, parameter ]...): Defines one or more parameters of the function.

    For information on the parameter definition syntax, see the Parameter definition syntax reference entry.

function-body: The body of a function definition. Define function-body using the following syntax:

    function-logic: The logic of the function. This logic can contain the ABL
        statements allowed within a procedure block, except that the RETURN ERROR
        statement returns the Unknown value (?) for
        the function, regardless of its return type, but does not raise ERROR in the caller.

        To return a function value of the data type specified by
        return-type, you can execute the RETURN statement
        to set a value of that data type to return at run time. If you omit the RETURN
        statement, the function returns the Unknown value (?), regardless of the data type specified by return-type.

        If return-type is defined
        as a.NET array of mapped types (for example, "System.Byte[]"), you must return
        an object reference of the specified.NET array of mapped types in the RETURN
        statement. You cannot return an ABL array of a type that maps to the.NET array
        type (for example, INTEGER EXTENT) or the AVM raises a run-time error. If you do
        not execute any RETURN statement for return-type in the function-logic, the user-defined function returns the Unknown value
        (?) as its return value.

        Each logic statement must end with a period.

    catch-block: Specifies a CATCH statement that defines error handling code
        for one or more error types. A DO block does not have any default error handling.
        Therefore, a DO block must have error handling options specified such that it
        becomes an undoable block. Otherwise, ABL generates a compiler warning. For more
        information on catch-block, see the CATCH statement
        reference entry.

    finally-block: Specifies a FINALLY statement that defines the processing that
        must occur after all other processing in the block occurs. For more information on
        finally-block, see the FINALLY statement reference
        entry.

    END [ FUNCTION ]: Specifies the end of the function body definition. You must end
        the function body definition with the END statement.

FORWARD: Declares a prototype for a function in a procedure whose definition
    appears later in the same procedure. You must declare a user-defined function
    prototype when the function definition appears within the same procedure following the
    first use of the function. This prototype must appear in the procedure before the
    first use of the function.

    The FUNCTION statement with the FORWARD option must include the
    following information on the function: the data type it returns, and the data type and
    mode (INPUT, OUTPUT, or INPUT-OUTPUT) of each parameter.

    If you declare a function prototype, reference it, and do not define
    it before the end of the procedure, the compiler returns an error.

[ MAP [ TO ]actual-name] IN proc-handle: Declares prototype for a function that resides in a procedure
    external to the declaring procedure, with the following information:

     Optionally, that function-name (the second element in the FUNCTION statement) is an
      alias (alternative name) for the function and that actual-name is the name that appears in the function definition.
     The definition of the function resides in another external
      procedure specified by proc-handle, which
      represents an expression that evaluates to a handle to the procedure that defines
      the function. This procedure can be an active procedure in the local context or in a
      remote persistent, single-run, or singleton procedure.

    Note: The MAP option might simplify your code if it references two different
    user-defined functions that have the same name but that reside in different
    procedures.

    A FUNCTION statement with the IN proc-handle option must include the following information on the
    function: the data type it returns, and the data type and mode (INPUT, OUTPUT, or
    INPUT-OUTPUT) of each parameter.

IN SUPER: Declares a prototype for a function whose definition resides in a
    super procedure.

    A FUNCTION statement with the IN SUPER option must include the
    following information on the function: the data type it returns, and the data type and
    mode (INPUT, OUTPUT, or INPUT-OUTPUT) of each parameter.

operationName: The name of a Web service operation specified in a WSDL file.

hPortType: A handle to a procedure object that encapsulates a Web service
    operation.

Examples

The first example, r-udf1.p, defines
and references the user-defined function doubler(), which
accepts an integer and returns the integer multiplied by two:

r-udf1.p

The second example, r-udf2.p,
declares a prototype for, references, and defines doubler():

r-udf2.p

The third example consists of two procedures, r-udf3.p and r-udfdef.p. The example
illustrates defining a prototype for user-defined function that is defined in an external
procedure.

The procedure, r-udf3.p, declares
the prototype for doubler(), runs r-udfdef.p persistently, invokes doubler(), and deletes the persistent procedure:

r-udf3.p

The second procedure, r-udfdef.p,
defines doubler():

r-udfdef.p

To start the third example, run r-udf3.p in the Procedure Editor.

In the fourth example, r-fctrl2.p,
the user-defined function fact() implements the factorial
function, common in probability and statistics, and commonly notated "!" (6! = 6 x 5 x 4 x 3 x 2 x 1; 100! =
100 x 99 x 98 x... x 3 x 2 x 1):

r-fctrl2.p

Notes

 You can terminate a FUNCTION statement with either a period (.) or a
  colon (:), but typically use a colon (:) for a function definition and a period (.) for a
  function prototype or to declare a Web service operation.
 Before you reference a user-defined function within a procedure, you
  must define it, declare its prototype, declare it as external (by using FUNCTION
  statement's IN option), or define it.
 You cannot define shared objects, work tables, temp-tables, or
  ProDataSet objects within a user-defined function.
 ABL implements scalar and array parameters of user-defined functions as
  NO-UNDO variables.
 A reference to a user-defined function must match the declared
  prototype or definition with respect to the return type, and with respect to the number,
  type, and mode of the parameters.
 When an ABL predicate (such as a WHERE clause) contains a user-defined
  function, the AVM evaluates the function once—when it opens the query or enters the FOR
  EACH block.
 When the AVM encounters a user-defined function declared externally
  that references a user-defined function declared externally that references a user-defined
  function declared externally, etc., the AVM tolerates up to 64 levels of indirection. At
  the 65th level, the AVM raises an error and returns the Unknown value (?).
 If a user-defined function has one or more buffer parameters and its
  definition resides in another procedure, the referencing procedure and the defining
  procedure must reside on the same machine. If a user-defined function does not have buffer
  parameters, the invoking procedure and the defining procedure can reside on different
  machines.
 When you invoke a user-defined function (or a built-in function), you
  do not need to assign the function's return value to a variable. That is, you can invoke
  a user-defined function as a statement, ignoring the return value. You might use this
  technique with a function that performs some action on a persistent object, such as a
  shared variable, when you want the action to occur and do not need to check the return
  value. For example:

 When you invoke a user-defined function, you may pass a TABLE,
  TABLE-HANDLE, DATASET, or DATASET-HANDLE parameter by value, by reference, or by binding
  using the BY-VALUE, BY-REFERENCE, or BIND keyword, respectively. For example:

  For more information about passing these parameters by value, by
  reference, or by binding, see the Parameter passing syntax reference entry.
 To return an error to the caller from a user-defined function, you can:
• Migrate from using a user-defined function defined within a
    procedure to using a method defined within a class.
• Use the ROUTINE-LEVEL ON ERROR UNDO, THROW statement in conjunction with the THROW option of the UNDO statement or the ON ERROR phrase in the
    user-defined function block.
• Use the THROW option of the UNDO statement or the ON ERROR phrase
    from a CATCH block (CATCH statement) within the user-defined function block.
• Invoke the STOP statement to raise the STOP
    condition in the caller.

See also

DYNAMIC-FUNCTION function, METHOD statement, Parameter definition syntax, PROCEDURE statement, RETURN statement




GET-DOUBLE function

Returns the 8-byte floating-point value at
the specified memory location as a DECIMAL value.

Syntax

source: A function or variable that returns a RAW or MEMPTR value. If source is
    the Unknown value (?), GET-DOUBLE returns the Unknown value (?).

position: An integer value greater than 0 that indicates the byte position
    where you want to find the information. If position is greater
    than the length of source, the AVM returns the Unknown value (?).
    If position is less than 1, the AVM generates
    a run-time error.

Example

For
examples of how to use the GET-DOUBLE function, see the GET-BYTE function reference
entry.

Notes

 This
  function supports byte-swapping only if source is
  a MEMPTR data type. The function will first examine the byte-order
  setting of the MEMPTR and then swap the bytes appropriately before
  interpreting them. The AVM does not swap the bytes in the MEMPTR's
  memory, but does the byte-swap as it creates the return value.
 For more information on using the MEMPTR and RAW data types, see OpenEdge Programming Interfaces.

See also

LENGTH function, PUT-DOUBLE statement, RAW function, RAW statement, SET-SIZE statement




IF...THEN...ELSE function

Evaluates and returns one of two expressions, depending
on the value of a specified condition.

Syntax

condition: An expression whose value is logical (TRUE or FALSE).

expression1: A constant, field name, variable name, or expression. If the condition is
    TRUE, then the function returns this value.

expression2: A constant, field name, variable name, or expression whose value
    is of a data type that is compatible with the data type of expression1.
    If the condition is FALSE or the Unknown value (?),
    then the function returns this value.

Example

You
can use the IF... THEN... ELSE function when you want to sort records
in an unusual order. In this example, the Customers are sorted so
that those with a Balance greater than $10,000 appear first, then
those with Balances between $1,000 and $10,000, and finally those
with Balance of $1,000 or less:

r-ifelsf.p




IF...THEN...ELSE statement

Makes the execution of a statement or block of statements conditional. If
the value of the expression following the IF statement is TRUE, the AVM
processes the statements following the THEN statement. Otherwise, the AVM
processes the statements following the ELSE statement.

Syntax

expression: A constant, field name, variable name, or expression whose value
    is logical (TRUE or FALSE). The expression can include comparisons, logical
    operators, and parentheses.

THEN: Describes the block statement to process if the expression is
    TRUE.

block: The block statement that contains the code you want to process if
    expression is TRUE. See the DO statement, FOR statement, and REPEAT statement reference
    entries for more information. If you do not start a block, you can process just one
    statement after the IF keyword or the ELSE keyword.

    Any block or
    blocks you use in an IF...THEN...ELSE statement can contain other
    blocks or other IF...THEN...ELSE statements.

statement: A single ABL statement. The statement can be another IF...THEN...ELSE statement. If
    you want to use more than one statement, enclose those statements in a
    DO, FOR EACH, or REPEAT block.

ELSE: Describes the block statement to process if the expression is FALSE or the Unknown value (?). The ELSE option is not required.

Example

The r-ifelss.p procedure
creates a report in a file that lists Customers whose Orders have
been shipped, but who have not paid for those Orders:

r-ifelss.p

First, the procedure writes report headers to the ovrdue.lst file. Next, the outer FOR EACH block reads each of
the Orders using a DISPLAY statement to display information on each Order.
If there are no values in the ShipDate and PromiseDate fields, the procedure prompts you to enter a promise
date. The procedure then prompts if the order has been shipped. If it has, supply a ship
date.

If there is a ship date and a promise date for an order, the procedure
prompts if the order has been paid for. If not, the procedure displays the order information
to the file.




LAST function

Returns a TRUE value if the current iteration
of a DO, FOR EACH, or REPEAT... BREAK block is the last iteration
of that block.

Syntax

break-group: The name of a field or expression you named in the block header with
    the BREAK BY option.

Example

The
first FOR EACH block produces a list of the on hand values of the
items in inventory. It also automatically generates a total of these
on hand values.

The second FOR EACH block does exactly the
same thing, except it does not generate the total. Instead, the
procedure uses the ACCUMULATE statement and the LAST function. Thus,
you can substitute your own labels and formats for the grand total.

r-last.p

See also

FIRST function, FIRST-OF function, LAST-OF function




LEAVE statement

Exits from a block. Execution continues with
the first statement after the end of the block.

Syntax

label: The name of the block you want to leave. If you do not name
    a block, the AVM leaves the innermost iterating block that contains
    the LEAVE statement. If there is no such block, then the AVM leaves
    the procedure block.

Example

This
procedure represents part of a menu program. If the user chooses
N, P, F, or Q, the procedure leaves the inner choose block and goes
on to process the menu selection. If the user presses any other
key, the procedure rings the terminal bell.

r-leave.p

See also

NEXT statement, RETURN statement, UNDO statement




NO-ERROR option

NO-ERROR: If an error occurs on the statement with NO-ERROR, the AVM undoes the action of the statement and continues
    execution with the next statement rather than raising ERROR. In addition, all error messages are diverted to the ERROR-STATUS system handle
    rather than being displayed to the current output device. The information stored
    in the ERROR-STATUS system handle remains until
    the next statement using NO-ERROR. To check for
    errors after a statement that uses the NO-ERROR
    option:

     Check the ERROR-STATUS:ERROR attribute to see if an error was
      encountered during the execution of the statement. Note however that
      sometimes errors are treated as warnings and ERROR-STATUS:ERROR is not set.
     Alternatively, check if the ERROR-STATUS:NUM-MESSAGES attribute is greater than zero
      to see if the AVM generated error or warning messages.
• Use ERROR-STATUS:GET-MESSAGE(message-num) to retrieve a particular message, where
      message-num is 1 for the first
      message.

    NO-ERROR has no effect
    when a STOP or QUIT condition occurs.

    If an error
    object is thrown to a statement that includes the NO-ERROR option, the information and messages in the error
    object are used to set the ERROR-STATUS
    system handle.

    For more information on using NO-ERROR and error handling in general, see
    ABL Error Handling.

See also

Assignment (=) statement, ASSIGN statement, BUFFER-COMPARE statement, BUFFER-COPY statement, Class-based method call, COMPILE statement, CONNECT statement, COPY-LOB statement, CREATE automation object statement, CREATE CALL statement, CREATE DATABASE statement, CREATE SAX-ATTRIBUTES statement, CREATE SAX-READER statement, CREATE SAX-WRITER statement, CREATE SERVER-SOCKET statement, CREATE SOCKET statement, CREATE statement, CREATE WIDGET-POOL statement, DDE ADVISE statement, DDE EXECUTE statement, DDE GET statement, DDE INITIATE statement, DDE REQUEST statement, DDE SEND statement, DDE TERMINATE statement, DELETE OBJECT statement, DELETE PROCEDURE statement, DELETE statement, DELETE WIDGET-POOL statement, DISCONNECT statement, DISPLAY statement, DYNAMIC-NEW statement, EXTENT statement, FIND statement, IMPORT statement, EMPTY TEMP-TABLE statement, INSERT statement, LOAD statement, NEW statement, Publish() event method, PUT-KEY-VALUE statement, RAW-TRANSFER statement, RELEASE OBJECT statement, RELEASE statement, REPOSITION statement, RUN STORED-PROCEDURE statement, RUN SUPER statement, SAVE CACHE statement, SET statement, SUBSCRIBE statement, Subscribe() event method, SUPER system reference, UNLOAD statement, Unsubscribe() event method, UPDATE statement, USE statement, VALIDATE statement




ON ERROR phrase

The ON ERROR phrase is one of the ABL
constructs used for altering the default condition handling for ABL blocks. By default, when
an error occurs in a block, all the changes to persistent data (database fields) are undone.
If the block is a transaction block, undo variables and temp-table fields are also undone.
See Develop ABL Applications for more information on
transaction blocks. The ON ERROR phrase can be used to
modify the scope of UNDO processing, possibly widening it
to an outer block. In addition, if an error occurs, the ON
phrase gives you control over where execution continues.

In general, the AVM performs error handling using this precedence, from
highest to lowest. The AVM only abides by one of these when a condition is raised:

 Statement NO-ERROR option
 CATCH block
 Block’s ON phrase (explicit or
  implicit)

Due to this precedence, the ON phrase is ignored if a local
CATCH block handles the error.

Syntax

label1: The name of the block whose processing you want to undo. If you do not
    name a block with label1, the AVM undoes the
    processing of the current block.

LEAVE [label2]: Indicates that after undoing the processing of a block, the AVM leaves
    the block labeled label2. If you do not name a block,
    the AVM leaves the current block.

NEXT [label2]: Indicates that after undoing the processing of a block, the AVM
    executes the next iteration of the block you name with label2. If you do not specify a label with the NEXT
    option, the AVM executes the next iteration of the current block.

RETRY [label1]: Indicates that after undoing the processing of a block, the AVM
    repeats the same iteration of the block.

    Because RETRY in a block without user input results in an infinite
    loop, the AVM automatically checks for this possibility and converts a RETRY block into a LEAVE
    block, or a NEXT block if it is an iterating block.
    This behavior is often referred to as infinite loop protection.

RETURN...: Returns to the calling routine, if there is one. The following table
    describes various RETURN options:

    Note: Using RETURN ERROR in a
    user-defined function sets the target variable of the function to the Unknown value
    (?) instead of raising ERROR in the caller. See ABL Error Handling
    for more detail.

THROW: Use this directive to explicitly propagate an error to the enclosing
    block, if there is one, otherwise to the caller. You can learn more about throwing error
    objects in ABL Error Handling.

Examples

In r-onerr.p, if you enter a
Customer number and the FIND statement is unable to find a Customer with
that number, the AVM raises an error. If an error occurs, the ON ERROR
phrase tells the AVM to undo anything that was done in the current iteration and start the
next iteration. Thus, you see any invalid numbers you enter, and you can continue to the
next Customer number you want to enter.

r-onerr.p

In r-onErrorThrow01.p the block propagates an error
from a DO block up to the main procedure block. A CATCH
block on the main procedure block handles the error.

r-onErrorThrow01.p

Notes

 For callable blocks, including procedures, user-defined functions,
  class-based methods, and property accessors use the ROUTINE-LEVEL
  ON ERROR UNDO, THROW or BLOCK-LEVEL ON ERROR UNDO,
  THROW statement, if you want an UNDO, THROW
  directive. BLOCK-LEVEL ON ERROR UNDO, THROW is a
  superset of ROUTINE-LEVEL ON ERROR UNDO, THROW and
  applies to more block types.
 Error objects can be thrown from an application server and handled by a
  CATCH block on an ABL client. To be throwable from an
  application server to an ABL client, user-defined error classes must be defined on both
  the server and client sides, and the classes must be defined as SERIALIZABLE. For the full list of restrictions on class-based objects that
  are passed between application server and client, see the Parameter passing syntax entry. For more information on error
  handling in general, see ABL Error Handling.
 If a block does not have implicit error handling capabilities (for example, a simple
  DO or DO WHILE block) you can add the ON
  ERROR (or ON STOP) phrase to explicitly turn it into one with
  error handling. This allows you to use a CATCH statement within the block
  to catch any error or stop conditions. If you don't add the ON ERROR (or
  ON STOP) phrase and try to use a CATCH within the
  block, you get a compiler error.

See also

BLOCK-LEVEL ON ERROR UNDO, THROW statement,ON ENDKEY phrase, ON QUIT phrase, ON STOP phrase, RETURN statement, RETURN-VALUE function, ROUTINE-LEVEL ON ERROR UNDO, THROW statement, UNDO statement




ON STOP phrase

Describes processing that occurs when the STOP condition
is raised. The STOP condition is raised when:

 The user presses the STOP
  key (usually mapped to CTRL+BREAK in Windows
  and CTRL+C on Unix/Linux.)
 The time-out is exceeded for a STOP-AFTER directive on a DO, FOR, or REPEAT
  statement.
 The time-out set using the Lock Timeout (-lkwtmo) startup parameter is exceeded when waiting for release of a record
  lock, or when the user indicates they want to stop waiting.
 A STOP statement executes.
 System errors occur that raise the STOP (instead of
  the ERROR) condition.

By default, when a STOP condition
occurs in a block, all the changes to persistent data (database fields) are undone. If the
block is a transaction block, undo variables and temp-table fields are also undone. See
Develop ABL Applications for more information on transaction
blocks. The ON STOP phrase can be used to modify the scope
of UNDO processing, possibly widening it to an outer
block.

Also by default, a STOP condition causes execution to
leave the current block. The STOP condition is continually propagated to
the outer block, or up the call stack if there is no outer block. The ON
STOP phrase can be used to control where execution continues and to clear the
STOP condition so that it is not propagated beyond the current block.

The AVM performs stop handling using this precedence, from highest to
lowest. The AVM only abides by one of these when a STOP is raised:

 CATCH block
 Block’s ON phrase (explicit or
  implicit)

Due to this precedence, the ON STOP
phrase is ignored if a local CATCH block handles the
stop.

Syntax

label1: The name of the block whose processing you want to undo. If you do not
    name a block with label1, the AVM undoes the
    processing of the current block.

LEAVE [label2]: Indicates that, after undoing the processing of a block, the AVM
    leaves the block labeled label2. If you do not name a
    block, the AVM leaves the current block. There are restrictions. For example, you cannot
    undo an outer block, but leave only the inner block.

NEXT [label2]: Indicates that, after undoing the processing of a block, the AVM
    executes the next iteration of the block you name with the label2 option. If you do not name a block with the NEXT option, the AVM executes the next iteration of the current block.

RETRY [label1]: Indicates that after undoing the processing of a block, the AVM
    repeats the same iteration of the block.

    Because RETRY in a block without user input results in an infinite
    loop, the AVM automatically checks for this possibility and converts a RETRY block into a LEAVE
    block, or a NEXT block if it is an iterating block.
    This behavior is often referred to as infinite loop protection.

RETURN...: Returns to the calling routine, if there is one. The following table
    describes various RETURN options:

    Note: Using RETURN ERROR in a
    user-defined function sets the target variable of the function to the Unknown value
    (?) instead of raising ERROR in the caller. See ABL Error Handling
    for more detail.

Example

This procedure lets you update the CreditLimit field for each Customer. If you enter a value greater than 100,000,
the program raises the STOP condition. Since you specified
an UNDO, RETRY for a STOP, the procedure starts the iteration over and allows you to enter another
value.

r-ostop.p

Notes

 When both a local ON STOP phrase and
  a matching local CATCH block is specified on the current
  block, the local CATCH block takes precedence and the
  ON STOP phrase is ignored. If no local CATCH block matches the thrown stop object type, the specified
  directive in the local ON STOP phrase executes instead
  for any raised STOP condition.
 Almost all STOP conditions are
  trappable with the ON STOP phrase or a CATCH block. In some cases, the AVM might ignore STOP conditions at certain levels of the call stack. For
  example, if the AVM executes a procedure that relies on a database and the connection is
  lost, the AVM raises the STOP condition and unwinds the
  call stack until it gets to a level above all references to the
  database. ON STOP phrases and compatible CATCH blocks before this point are ignored. After this point,
  the AVM executes the directive specified in the ON STOP
  phrase or compatible CATCH block, with the CATCH block taking precedence if the ON STOP phrase is on the same associated block.
 If a block does not have implicit error handling capabilities (for example, a simple
  DO or DO WHILE block) you can add the ON
  STOP (or ON ERROR) phrase to explicitly turn it into one with
  error handling. This allows you to use a CATCH statement within the block
  to catch any error or stop conditions. If you don't add the ON STOP (or
  ON ERROR) phrase and try to use a CATCH within the
  block, you get a compiler error.

See also

CATCH statement, ON ENDKEY phrase, ON ERROR phrase, ON QUIT phrase, Progress.Lang.Stop class, Progress.Lang.StopError class, RETURN statement, RETURN-VALUE function, STOP statement




OR operator (bitwise)

Performs a bitwise inclusive OR operation on two expressions of the same flag enum type and
returns a new instance of the same type.

Syntax

flag-enum-expression: An expression whose value is a flag enum instance. Both expressions must be the same
    flag enum type, and neither expression can be the Unknown value
    (?).

Example

You can use bitwise OR to set multiple flags. This code fragment defines a variable of type
Progres.Reflect.Flags (see the Progress.Reflect.Flags enumeration entry for a full list of enumerators) and uses OR to set
both the Public and Protected flags.

The following example shows bitwise OR being used with one explicitly named flag and a
variable defined as type Progress.Reflect.Flags. The first bitwise OR sets
the Static and Public flags of
flagsEnum1. The second bitwise OR results in flagsEnum2
having the Static, Public, and Instance
flags set.

Notes
• This operator can be used with both ABL and.NET flag enums.

See also

AND operator (bitwise), ENUM statement, Expression, NOT operator (bitwise), XOR operator (bitwise)




OR operator (logical)

Returns a TRUE value if either of two logical expressions is TRUE.

Syntax

expression: A logical expression (a constant, field name, variable name or
    expression whose value is logical, that is, TRUE/FALSE, YES/NO).

Note: It is possible for an operand to
evaluate to the Unknown value (?). For an
OR operation, the result is TRUE if either operand evaluates to TRUE
(even if one of the operands is the Unknown value (?)). In all other cases,
the result is the Unknown value (?) if an operand evaluates to the Unknown
value (?).

Example

This
procedure lists Customers who have no postal code (PostalCode
= "") or that have no telephone number (Phone =
""), and displays how many Customers are in the list:

r-or.p

See also

AND operator (logical), NOT operator (logical)




Parameter definition syntax

Defines one or more run-time parameters for a user-defined function,
a class method (including a constructor), or a class event defined with an ABL
method signature. ABL implements both scalar and array parameters for user-defined
functions and methods of a class as NO-UNDO variables.

Syntax

Note: To define
run-time parameters for an ABL procedure, Windows dynamic link library (DLL)
routine, UNIX shared library routine, or ActiveX control event procedure, see the
DEFINE PARAMETER statement reference
entry.

Use the following syntax to define each parameter, which can be a primitive, array, class, interface,
temp-table, ProDataSet, or buffer:

INPUT | OUTPUT | INPUT-OUTPUT: Specifies the parameter mode, which determines the
    direction that data travels when the parameter is passed at run time. An
    INPUT parameter travels from the caller (source), which sets its value, to
    the called function or method (destination or receiver), which can use the
    value. An OUTPUT parameter travels from the called function or method
    (source), which sets its value, back to the caller (destination or
    receiver), which can use the value. An INPUT-OUTPUT parameter travels both
    ways, first from the caller, which sets its value; then to the called
    function or method, which can use and reset the value and pass it back to
    the caller, which can use the returned value. If a parameter mode is not
    specified, then the default mode is INPUT.

parameter-name: Specifies the name of a primitive, class, interface, or
    array parameter.

AS primitive-type-name: Specifies a built-in primitive type for the parameter you
    are defining. The built-in data type (primitive-type-name) can be one of the following:

    If you are defining a parameter for a
    user-defined function, a pure ABL class method (without reference to.NET), or a class event defined with an ABL method signature,
    AS-data-type does not specify a valid primitive type name.

    If you are defining a parameter for a method that
    overrides a.NET super class method (abstract or otherwise) or
    implements a method defined in a.NET interface, primitive-type-name must specify the
    exact.NET data type of the corresponding parameter in the overridden or
    implemented method. For a.NET mapped data type that is a default match
    for a given ABL primitive type, you must use the default matching ABL
    data type, as shown in Table 4. (For example, INTEGER indicates a.NET System.Int32.) For a.NET mapped data type
    that is not a default match for one of the ABL
    primitive types, ABL provides a data type keyword (AS-data-type) that you must use to
    explicitly indicate the required.NET data type, as shown in Table 5. (For example, the AS data type, UNSIGNED-BYTE,
    indicates a.NET System.Byte.)

    Note: At run time, a method parameter defined
    using an AS-data-type keyword
    behaves in ABL like the corresponding ABL primitive type shown in Table 5. (For example, an UNSIGNED-BYTE behaves like an
    INTEGER.)

    Also note that when overriding or
    implementing a.NET array parameter, you must specify the.NET array
    object type (for example, "System.Int32[]" or "System.Byte[]"); you cannot use
    an ABL array equivalent (for example, INTEGER EXTENT or UNSIGNED-BYTE
    EXTENT).

AS [ CLASS ]{object-type-name}: Specifies the parameter you are defining as an object
    reference to a class instance. This can have the data type of a class or an interface.

    object-type-name: Specifies the type name of an ABL or.NET class
        or interface. Specify an object type name using the syntax
        described in the Type-name syntax reference entry. With an appropriate
        USING statement, you can also specify a class or
        interface name alone, without the qualifying package or
        namespace.

        You cannot directly specify
        the type name of a.NET mapped object type (such as System.Int32). To define a
        parameter that matches a.NET mapped type, you must define
        it as the corresponding ABL primitive type (primitive-type-name).

        If you are defining a parameter for a
        method that overrides a.NET super class method (abstract or
        otherwise) or implements a method defined in a.NET
        interface, object-type-name must specify the exact.NET
        object type of the corresponding parameter in the overridden
        or implemented method. However, for.NET inner (nested)
        type, note the difference in the ABL syntax, which replaces
        the corresponding period (.) in the.NET object type with a plus
        (+) (see the Type-name syntax reference entry).

        Also note that when overriding or
        implementing a.NET array parameter, you must specify the.NET array object type (for example, "System.Drawing.Point[]"); you
        cannot use an ABL array
        equivalent (such as System.Drawing.Point EXTENT).

    CLASS: If the specified class or interface type name
        conflicts with an abbreviation for a built-in primitive type
        name, such as INT for INTEGER, you must specify the CLASS
        keyword.

        For a class or interface return
        value, the AVM passes an object reference associated with
        the class or interface, not a class instance itself. For
        more information on object references, see the Class-based object reference reference entry.

LIKE field: Specifies that the parameter you are defining has the same
    characteristics as the variable, database field, or temp-table field
    designated by field.

    The parameter will take on the characteristics of field. These characteristics include data
    type, extent, label, column-label, format, decimals, view-as and case
    sensitivity. One exception is UNDO, since all method and function
    parameters are always NO-UNDO.

    You can override
    the extent of field by supplying
    your own EXTENT phrase. You cannot override any other characteristics
    because the only variable qualifier available in the parameter
    definition syntax is EXTENT.

    If field is a variable or temp-table field,
    then it must be known by the compiler before the user-defined function,
    a class method, or class event you are defining can be compiled.

    If field is a
    database field, then the database must be connected at compile time, but
    need not be connected at run time. You may optionally qualify a database
    field name with its database and/or table name.

EXTENT [ constant ]: Defines the parameter as an array of data elements with a
    primitive type (specified using the AS primitive-type-name option) or an object type (specified
    using the AS object-type-name option).
    This option can specify an array parameter as either determinate (has a
    defined number of elements) or indeterminate (has an undefined number of
    elements). To define a determinate array parameter, specify the EXTENT
    option with the constant argument. This
    optional argument is an integer value that represents the number of data
    elements in the array parameter. To define an indeterminate array parameter,
    specify the EXTENT option without the constant
    argument.

    The EXTENT is part of the parameter
    data type. For more information, see the Type-name syntax reference
    entry.

    For more information about determinate and
    indeterminate arrays, see Work with one-dimensional
    arrays in Basic ABL.

    If you are using the AS option without the EXTENT
    option, or you specify constant as
    0, the parameter is not an array parameter.

TABLE temp-table-name: Specifies a parameter for a static temp-table.

    You can pass a temp-table parameter to both local and
    remote user-defined functions, as well as to methods of a class. The AVM
    passes the parameter by value, by default. That is, the caller and the
    called routine each have their own instance of the temp-table. When you
    invoke the routine, the AVM deep-copies the parameter from one instance
    to the other. The table that is copied depends on whether the parameter
    is INPUT, OUTPUT, or INPUT-OUTPUT. When you pass a temp-table as an
    INPUT parameter, the AVM replaces the receiving instance with the source
    instance, by default. You can also append the source instance to the end
    of the receiving instance by specifying the APPEND option. For more
    information about the APPEND option, see the option description later in
    this reference entry.

    When passing a temp-table
    parameter, you can override the default deep copy and pass the parameter
    by reference or by binding (that is, by passing the parameter using
    either the BY-REFERENCE or BIND option). Passing a temp-table parameter
    by reference or by binding allows the caller and the called routine to
    access the same object instance (instead of deep-copying the
    parameter).

    For more information about passing a
    temp-table parameter by reference or by binding, see the Parameter passing syntax
    reference entry. For more information about temp-table parameters, see
    Develop ABL Applications.

TABLE-HANDLE temp-table-handle: Specifies a temp-table handle parameter.

DATASET dataset-name: Specifies a parameter for a static ProDataSet.

    You can pass a ProDataSet parameter to both local and
    remote user-defined functions, as well as to methods of a class. The AVM
    passes the parameter by value, by default. That is, the caller and the
    called routine each have their own instance of the ProDataSet. When you
    invoke the routine, the AVM deep-copies the parameter from one instance
    to the other. The table that is copied depends on whether the parameter
    is INPUT, OUTPUT, or INPUT-OUTPUT. When you pass a ProDataSet as an
    INPUT parameter, the AVM replaces the receiving instance with the source
    instance, by default. You can also append the source instance to the end
    of the receiving instance by specifying the APPEND option. For more
    information about the APPEND option, see the option description later in
    this reference entry.

    When passing a ProDataSet
    parameter, you can override the default deep copy and pass the parameter
    by reference or by binding (that is, by passing the parameter using
    either the BY-REFERENCE or BIND option). Passing a ProDataSet parameter
    by reference or by binding allows the caller and the called routine to
    access the same object instance (instead of deep-copying the
    parameter).

    For more information about passing a
    ProDataSet object parameter by reference or by binding, see the Parameter passing syntax
    reference entry. For more information about ProDataSet object
    parameters, see Use ProDataSets.

DATASET-HANDLE dataset-handle: Specifies a ProDataSet handle parameter.

APPEND: Specifies whether or not to append the data from a source
    instance to the receiving instance of a passed temp-table or ProDataSet
    parameter. To append INPUT parameter data, specify the APPEND option for the
    parameter in the method or user-defined function definition. To append
    OUTPUT parameter data, specify the APPEND option for the parameter in the
    method or function call.

BIND: Indicates that a TABLE, TABLE-HANDLE, DATASET, or
    DATASET-HANDLE parameter binds a reference-only object in one routine to an
    object instance defined and instantiated in another local routine.

    When you define a reference-only object in the calling
    routine, and you want to bind that object definition to an object
    instance in the called routine, define the parameter by specifying the
    BIND option in an INPUT or INPUT-OUTPUT parameter definition. When you
    define a reference-only object in the called routine, and you want to
    bind that object definition to an object instance in the calling
    routine, define the parameter by specifying the BIND option in an OUTPUT
    parameter definition. In either case, the reference-only object
    definition remains bound to the object instance until the routine
    containing the reference-only object definition is deleted or
    terminates.

    CAUTION: Do not delete the object or routine to
    which a reference-only object is bound, or you might be left with
    references to an object that no longer exists.

    You can bind multiple reference-only object definitions
    to the same object instance. You can also bind a single reference-only
    object definition to the same object instance multiple times without
    generating an error. However, you cannot bind a single reference-only
    object definition to multiple object instances.

    When passing one of these parameters to a remote user-defined function,
    the AVM ignores the BIND option and deep-copies the parameter based on
    the specified parameter mode.

    For more
    information about passing these parameters by binding, see the Parameter passing syntax
    reference entry.

BY-VALUE: Specified for an INPUT, OUTPUT, or INPUT-OUTPUT TABLE,
    TABLE-HANDLE, DATASET, or DATASET-HANDLE parameter in a called routine, this
    option forces the parameter to be passed to the local routine by value,
    which overrides any BY-REFERENCE option in the corresponding routine
    invocation. For more information on BY-REFERENCE, see the Parameter passing syntax reference
    entry.

    CAUTION: Using BY-VALUE with a temp-table or
    ProDataSet parameter is only permitted with procedures. You cannot use
    BY-VALUE with temp-table and ProDataSet parameters in functions or class
    methods.

BUFFER buffer-name FOR table-name [ PRESELECT ]: Defines a buffer parameter, where buffer-name is the name you specify for the buffer and
    table-name is the name of a
    temp-table or database table to which the buffer is attached. However, if a
    temp-table name is identical to a database table name, all ABL references to
    the database table name must use fully-qualified database-name.database-table-name syntax. A buffer
    parameter is always INPUT-OUTPUT.

    Note: You cannot pass a work table buffer to a
    buffer parameter.

    If you use the PRESELECT
    option and access the buffer parameter in a DO or REPEAT block, the AVM
    creates an internal list of the records selected. The PRESELECT option
    tells the AVM to apply that internal list to the buffer you
    define.

    Note: You cannot invoke a user-defined function
    remotely if it has one or more buffer parameters.

    Note: Buffer
    parameters are intended for database tables and only allow you to view
    an individual buffer for a temp-table. Use a TABLE
    BY-REFERENCE parameter if you need more
    functionality.

Notes

 When defining an overloaded method or constructor, the
  signature must be unique among all overloaded method or constructor definitions,
  respectively, with the same name. The signature consists of the name of the
  method or constructor, the number of parameters, and the type and mode of each
  of its parameters, in order from left to right. The signature of a method does
  not include the method return type or access mode.

  So,
  overloading allows you to define multiple methods or constructors for a
  class definition, where all methods or constructors that have the same name
  all have different signatures. The signature cannot vary only by access mode
  or return type. If methods within a class definition differ only by their
  access modes or return types, ABL raises a compilation error.
 For data types that can have an EXTENT for defining arrays, you
  can define overloaded methods or constructors that are distinguished only by
  parameters with the same data type, where:
• One can have the same parameter defined as a primitive
    (no EXTENT)
• One can have the same parameter defined with an
    indeterminate EXTENT
• Every additional one can have the same parameter
    defined with a different EXTENT than all the others
 You can have overloaded methods or constructors defined only
  with TABLE parameters or only with DATASET parameters as long as the
  corresponding parameter for each overloaded method or constructor is defined
  with a different schema from all others defined with the same type.
 TABLE and TABLE-HANDLE parameters count as different data types
  for overloading, as do DATASET and DATASET-HANDLE parameters. However, because
  the schema is not known at compile time, you can define only one overloaded
  method or constructor with a TABLE-HANDLE parameter corresponding to other
  method or constructor parameters that differ only as TABLE parameters.
  Similarly, you can define only one overloaded method or constructor with a
  DATASET-HANDLE parameter corresponding to other overloaded method or constructor
  parameters that differ only as DATASET parameters.
 At compile time, it might not be possible to identify a unique
  overloaded method to call that is passed a TABLE-HANDLE or DATASET-HANDLE
  parameter. Without a schema defined, this parameter type matches any respective
  TABLE or DATASET parameter, as well as any respective TABLE-HANDLE or
  DATASET-HANDLE parameter. Where such overloaded alternatives exist, the AVM
  resolves the correct method to call at run time. For more information, see the
  Parameter passing syntax reference
  entry.
 A BUFFER parameter cannot be a REFERENCE-ONLY buffer or a
  BEFORE-TABLE buffer. Using either of these as a BUFFER type of parameter (as
  opposed to INPUT or OUTPUT) is a compiler error. Instead of passing the buffer,
  the buffer's table can be passed by-reference.

See also

CONSTRUCTOR statement, DEFINE EVENT statement, FUNCTION statement,
METHOD statement, Parameter passing syntax, SUPER function,
Type-name syntax, USING statement




Parameter passing syntax

Specifies one or more parameters to pass during
invocation of an ABL procedure, a user-defined function, a method
of a class (ABL or.NET), a class constructor (ABL or.NET),
or the built-in Publish() event method or PUBLISH statement to
publish class or named events, respectively.

Syntax

The parameters specified by parameter must
match in number and order, according to mode and data type, as required
by the given procedure, user-defined function, method, or constructor
definition. Use the following syntax to specify each parameter:

[ INPUT | OUTPUT | INPUT-OUTPUT ]: Specifies the parameter mode. For more information on parameter modes,
    see the reference entries for the DEFINE PARAMETER statement (for procedures) and the Parameter definition syntax (for user-defined functions, methods, and class
    events).

    Note that for methods and constructors, the parameter
    mode is optional except for certain overloading conditions. Thus,
    the default mode depends on the type of invocation, as described
    in the following table.

    Table 1. Default parameter passing mode

    When identifying the parameter mode for a.NET method
    or constructor, each.NET language uses its own keyword syntax
    to identify it. The following table shows the C# parameter syntax
    that corresponds to an ABL parameter specified with a given mode.
    Note that in C#, the default (no keyword) corresponds to the ABL
    INPUT mode.

    Table 2. C#
    syntax matching ABL parameter modes

    Also note, as with ABL class-based methods,
    the default parameter passing modes for calling.NET methods
    and constructors are based on the parameter passing modes defined
    for the method or constructor prototypes, depending on overloading.
    Thus, you must specify the parameter passing mode for each
    affected parameter if the method is overloaded only by a
    given parameter's mode.

parm: Specifies the argument passed to the parameter. This can be either an ABL data element
    or Expression, or a.NET data
    element, depending on the parameter mode. For an INPUT parameter,
    parm can be an Expression. For an OUTPUT or INPUT-OUTPUT parameter,
    parm can be any of the elements defined for the left side of an
    Assignment (=) statement. For an
    INPUT-OUTPUT parameter, any property argument must be both writable and readable.

    Note: Syntactic limitations require that none of the following data items can be
    an OUTPUT or INPUT-OUTPUT parameter: a writable handle attribute, a writable property
    (ABL or.NET) on an object reference, or a data member (ABL or.NET) on an object
    reference. The limitation is that OUTPUT and INPUT-OUTPUT parameters cannot have a
    colon in their syntax. For example, OUTPUT
    myObjectRef:WritableProperty is invalid syntax.

    For procedures,
    the data type of parm must be compatible with the data type defined
    for the parameter. Procedures allow the matching of a wide variety of different data
    types between the passed parameter and the parameter definition. When it can, the AVM
    converts the passed value from the source data type to an appropriate value in the
    destination data type, depending on the direction (parameter mode) of the passed
    value. For procedures, the AVM checks data type matching and appropriate overflow
    conditions at run time.

    For user-defined functions, methods of a class, class
    constructors, and the Publish() event method, the data types of the passed parameter and the parameter definition are validated
    by the AVM at compile time and must match exactly, unless they have a widening
    relationship.

    The AVM implicitly converts passed parameter values of certain
    data types from a narrow data type in the source to a widened data type in the
    destination, depending on the parameter mode. A widened data type is one that can hold
    all the values of a narrower data type without loss of data. Widening is supported for
    three related sets of data types, as shown in the following table, where the arrow (—>) indicates the direction that a value can be passed for the
    parameter.

    Table 3. Data type widening support

    Thus, ABL supports the widening of data types in the direction that the
    parameter is defined, according to its mode:

     INPUT parameters — The data type of the passed parameter can be narrower
      than the defined parameter.
     OUTPUT parameters — The data type of the passed parameter can be wider than
      the defined parameter.
     INPUT-OUTPUT parameters — Widening is not supported. Because values are
      passed in both directions, the data type of the passed parameter must exactly match
      the data type of the defined parameter.

    For.NET method parameters, ABL also supports widening relationships between ABL
    and some.NET data types. For more information, see the notes of this reference
    entry.

    For a parm that involves.NET data types, either as
    the parameter definition or as the argument, the requirements for parameter passing
    depend on the parameter and argument data types and the type of routine that defines
    the parameter. The following table shows the possible combinations.

    Note: The following table refers to.NET value types,.NET mapped data types,.NET arrays of mapped types, boxing, and unboxing. Boxing and unboxing refer to a.NET
    mechanism for converting between.NET value types and.NET object types. ABL supports
    a similar mechanism for converting between ABL primitive or array types and a.NET
    System.Object or compatible array object type. For more information
    on.NET data types, concepts, and compatibility, see the Data types reference entry.

    Table 4. Passing parameters involving.NET types

AS data-type: Indicates an explicit mapping between an argument with an ABL primitive type and the
    parameter of a.NET method or constructor. Assuming that the.NET data type defined for
    the parameter is compatible with the data type of the ABL argument,
    data-type represents an ABL keyword (AS data type)
    that indicates an alternative.NET data type mapping to identify with the.NET
    parameter. This option is necessary in the following cases:

     When the.NET method or constructor is overloaded by multiple implicit.NET data
      type mappings for the passed ABL primitive type and the method you want is not
      identified by the default match for the passed ABL data type. Thus, by explicitly
      specifying an AS data type, you can disambiguate the implicit.NET overloadings for
      the method or constructor.

      Note: You can specify a passed parameter AS
      data type for a.NET method that is not overloaded. However, you have no need to
      do so unless the method is overloaded by a given parameter.
     The parameter is defined as a System.Object, and you want the.NET value of the passed ABL primitive type to be stored as a.NET mapped data type
      that is not the default match. For example, you might want the
      System.Object parameter to store an ABL INTEGER value as a
      System.Int16 instead of as a System.Int32 (the
      default match).

    For the a list of available keywords that you can specify for
    data-type, as well as the default matches for ABL primitive types
    with multiple.NET data type mappings, see Table 5 in the Data types reference entry.

    Note: The AS data types in Table 5  represent some different data types than you can specify using the AS option to
    pass a COM method parameter. For more information on passing COM method parameters,
    see Syntax for accessing COM object properties and methods.

TABLE temp-table-name: Specifies the name of a static temp-table.

    This parameter
    type can match at compile time with any TABLE parameter with the
    same schema, or any TABLE-HANDLE parameter. If the matching type
    is TABLE-HANDLE, a run-time check occurs if the TABLE-HANDLE is
    not the Unknown value (?) in order to ensure that the
    run-time schemas match. A parameter of a user-defined function or
    method of a class is verified at compile time, while a parameter
    of a procedure is verified at run time.

TABLE-HANDLE temp-table-handle: Specifies a handle to a temp-table. Use a temp-table handle
    as a parameter for a dynamic temp-table. The full schema definition
    behind the handle and the contents of the temp-table are passed
    unless the temp-table SCHEMA-MARSHAL attribute is set to minimize or prevent schema marshalling.

    This
    parameter type can match at compile time with any TABLE or TABLE-HANDLE
    parameter. If the matching type is TABLE-HANDLE, a run-time check
    occurs if the TABLE-HANDLE is not the Unknown value (?) in
    order to ensure that the run-time schemas match. A parameter of
    a user-defined function or method of a class is verified at compile
    time, while a parameter of a procedure is verified at run time.

DATASET dataset-name: Specifies the name of a static ProDataSet.

    This parameter
    type can match at compile time with any DATASET parameter with the
    same schema, or any DATASET-HANDLE parameter. If the matching type
    is DATASET-HANDLE, a run-time check occurs if the DATASET-HANDLE
    is not the Unknown value (?) in order to ensure that the
    run-time schemas match. A parameter of a user-defined function or
    method of a class is verified at compile time, while a parameter
    of a procedure is verified at run time.

DATASET-HANDLE dataset-handle: Specifies a handle to a ProDataSet. Use a ProDataSet object handle as
    a parameter for a dynamic ProDataSet. The full schema definition behind the handle and
    the contents of the ProDataSet object are passed unless the SCHEMA-MARSHAL attribute for one or more of its
    temp-tables are set to minimize or prevent schema marshalling.

    This
    parameter type can match at compile time with any DATASET or DATASET-HANDLE parameter.
    If the matching type is DATASET-HANDLE, a run-time check occurs if the DATASET-HANDLE
    is not the Unknown value (?) in order to ensure that
    the run-time schemas match. A parameter of a user-defined function or method of a
    class is verified at compile time, while a parameter of a procedure is verified at run
    time.

BUFFER buffer: Specifies the name of a buffer.

    Note: Buffer parameters are intended
    for database tables and only allow you to view an individual buffer for a temp-table.
    Use a TABLE BY-REFERENCE parameter if you need more
    functionality.

APPEND: Specifies whether or not to append the source temp-table data
    to the destination temp-table data. To append OUTPUT parameter data,
    specify the APPEND option for the parameter in the routine call.
    To append INPUT parameter data, specify the APPEND option for the
    parameter in the routine definition.

BY-VALUE | BY-REFERENCE | BIND: Specifies whether to pass a TABLE, TABLE-HANDLE, DATASET, or
    DATASET-HANDLE parameter by value, by reference, or by binding. The default is
    BY-VALUE.

    You can pass TABLE, TABLE-HANDLE, DATASET, and
    DATASET-HANDLE parameters to both local and remote procedures. These parameter types
    are normally passed by value, by default. That is, the calling routine and the called
    routine each have their own instance of the object, and the parameter is deep-copied
    from the calling routine's instance to the called routine's instance.

    When passing one of these parameters to a local routine, you can
    override the default in the calling routine by specifying the BY-REFERENCE or BIND
    option.

    Passing one of these parameters to a local routine
    using the BY-REFERENCE option allows the calling routine and the called routine to
    access the same object instance. That is, both routines access the calling routine's
    instance and ignore the called routine's instance. Since the called routine's object
    instance is ignored, you should define the static object as reference-only by
    specifying the REFERENCE-ONLY option in the DEFINE statement for the object.

    Passing one of these parameters to a local routine using the BIND
    option allows the calling routine and the called routine to access the same object
    instance. You can do this by:

     Binding a reference-only static object defined in one routine to
      an object instance defined in another routine
     Binding an unknown TABLE-HANDLE or DATASET-HANDLE parameter
      defined in one routine to an object instance defined in another routine

    In the static case, you must define a reference-only object in
    either the calling routine or the called routine by specifying the REFERENCE-ONLY
    option in the DEFINE statement for the object. You must also define the parameter by
    specifying the BIND option in the parameter definition.

    When
    you define a reference-only object in the calling routine and pass it to the called
    routine using the BIND option, the AVM binds the definition of the object in the
    calling routine to the object instance in the called routine. When you define a
    reference-only object in the called routine and receive the object from the calling
    routine, the AVM binds the definition of the object in the called routine to the
    object instance in the calling routine. In either case, the reference-only object
    definition remains bound to the object instance until the routine containing the
    reference-only object definition is deleted or terminates.

    CAUTION: Do not delete the object or routine to which a reference-only object is
    bound, or you might be left with references to an object that no longer exists.

    You can bind multiple reference-only object definitions to
    the same object instance. You can also bind a single reference-only object definition
    to the same object instance multiple times without generating an error. However, you
    cannot bind a single reference-only object definition to multiple object instances.

    When passing one of these parameters to a remote procedure,
    the AVM ignores the BY-REFERENCE and BIND options and deep-copies the parameter based
    on the specified parameter mode.

Examples

The
following two code fragments show how the AS data type works when calling
an overloaded.NET method, in this case the System.Math:Max() method.
This static.NET method compares two values of the same data
type and returns the largest of the two. The first fragment compiles
and runs. It compares the value 50, passed as a System.Byte (specified
by the AS data type, UNSIGNED-BYTE), with the maximum value of a System.Byte,
returned by the System.Byte:MaxValue data member.
The result returned by the Max() method
is 255, the maximum System.Byte value:

The second fragment compiles, but returns a
run-time error. Again, it passes the same two values to the System.Math:Max() method,
but this time passes them as a System.SByte (specified
by the AS data type, BYTE). A signed byte parameter cannot hold
positive values as large as an unsigned byte. So, passing the maximum
value of a System.Byte (unsigned byte) as a System.SByte (signed
byte) causes the Max() method to raise
a run-time overflow error:

The following code fragment shows an example
of ABL data type widening when passing parameters to a.NET method.
This example shows INPUT widening, in this case, passing different
ABL data types (INTEGER and INT64) that are acceptable as arguments
to a System.Double input parameter:

For more information on data type widening,
see the Notes section later in this reference entry.

Notes

 The
  requirements for calling and passing parameters to built-in handle
  methods and COM object methods have unique features not shared in
  calls to procedures, user-defined functions, and methods of a class
  or class constructors. For information on calling and passing parameters
  to built-in handle methods and COM object methods, see the information
  on calling these types of methods in the Handle Attributes and Methods Reference.
 You do not invoke a class constructor directly. To invoke a constructor,
  you pass constructor parameters in statements that participate in
  instantiating the class, such as the NEW function (classes), SUPER statement,
  or THIS-OBJECT statement.
  The constructor that is invoked matches the particular signature
  of the parameters that you pass.
 When you call the Publish() event method to publish a class event, or when you execute the PUBLISH statement to
  publish a named event, any parameters are passed to every event
  handler that is subscribed to the event. However, any parameter
  values returned from the Publish() method or PUBLISH statement
  reflect the settings of the last event handler to execute. Therefore,
  when you publish a class or named event, the value returned for
  an OUTPUT or INPUT-OUTPUT parameter, or for a member of any object
  (class or handle-based) referenced in an INPUT parameter, depends
  on the execution order of the event handlers subscribed to the event,
  which is not guaranteed. In addition, for INPUT-OUTPUT parameters
  or for members of objects referenced by INPUT parameters, the values
  returned from each event handler are used as input to the next event
  handler that executes.

  CAUTION: Because the execution
  order of multiple event handlers subscribed to a single event cannot
  be guaranteed, if you subscribe more than one event handler to a
  given class or named event, you cannot be certain which handler
  will return the values of any parameters that you define for the
  event.
 You cannot pass a CLOB or BLOB directly as a corresponding LONGCHAR/CHARACTER
  or MEMPTR parameter. You must first assign the CLOB to a LONGCHAR/CHARACTER
  or assign the BLOB to a MEMPTR and pass the result. For information
  on assigning large object data, see the Assignment (=) statement reference entry.
 When you instantiate a class dynamically, using the DYNAMIC-NEW statement,
  ABL distinguishes overloaded constructors only by the number of
  parameters.
 When you call overloaded methods or constructors that differ
  by a parameter that supports widening, ABL looks for an exact data
  type match at compile time. If an exact match is not found, the
  compiler will look for the closest widened match.
 When you pass an ABL array parameter, ABL initiates an array assignment
  that makes a deep copy of the array source to the array target, depending
  on the parameter mode. For more information on array assignments,
  see the Assignment (=) statement reference entry.
 For INPUT parameters of.NET methods or constructors defined with certain.NET data
  types, ABL supports widening relationships that allow you to pass ABL arguments with
  different ABL data types than those supported for implicit mapping to.NET data types (see
  Table 4 in the Data types
  reference entry).

  The following table lists the.NET parameter data types for which ABL
  supports the widening of ABL data types passed as INPUT arguments. For each.NET
  parameter data type, the listed ABL implicit mapping data type represents the closest
  matching ABL data type that you can pass to a.NET input parameter defined with the
  matching.NET data type. The corresponding listed ABL INPUT widening data types can hold
  smaller values that might also be acceptable to the.NET input parameter. However, they
  might also adhere to similar limitations as defined for passing values as the listed ABL
  implicit mapping data type. (Again, see Table 4 for a more complete description of these limitations.)

  Table 5. Data types for.NET INPUT parameter widening

 For OUTPUT parameters of.NET methods or constructors defined with certain.NET data
  types, ABL supports widening relationships that allow you to pass ABL arguments with
  different data types than those supported for implicit mapping to.NET data types (see
  Table 4 in the Data types
  reference entry).

  The following table lists the.NET parameter data types for which ABL
  supports the widening of ABL data types passed as OUTPUT arguments. For each.NET
  parameter data type, the listed ABL implicit mapping data type represents the closest
  matching ABL data type that can hold a.NET value passed to the OUTPUT parameter defined
  with the matching.NET data type. The corresponding listed ABL OUTPUT widening data
  types might hold even larger values than the listed ABL implicit mapping data type.
  However, but they might also adhere to similar limitations as defined for the listed ABL
  implicit mapping data type (Again, see Table 4 for a more complete description of these limitations.)

  Table 6. Data types for.NET OUTPUT parameter widening

 If you are passing an ABL object reference to an OUTPUT or INPUT-OUTPUT
  parameter defined as an unmapped.NET type, ABL treats any
  type returned by.NET as a class.
 If you assign a.NET value type object returned as an
  OUTPUT parameter from a.NET method to an ABL object reference
  variable, the returned object referenced in ABL is a separate copy
  from the original value type instance maintained by.NET.
  However within the ABL session, the object reference to the ABL
  copy, when passed as a parameter, is passed by reference like any
  object reference to an ABL class instance.
 ABL allows you to pass ABL arrays (defined with EXTENT) and.NET array
  objects to each other. Passing an array parameter of any type constitutes
  an array assignment whose direction moves from the source to the target
  array according to the parameter mode. How this array assignment works
  for ABL and.NET array parameters depends upon the types of
  the source and target arrays. For more information, see the Data types reference
  entry.
 When passing temp-table or ProDataSet parameters, the caller and callee parameters must
  be compatible. Compatible temp-tables must have the same number of fields, with each field
  matching in data type, extent, and position, but not in field name or any other field
  attribute. The temp-tables must have the same number of indexes, with index components
  matching in every way (except in field name), and the index names must also match. The
  temp-table names do not have to match. Compatible ProDataSets must have the same number of
  member buffers, in the same order, and the tables of those buffers must match in the same
  way as compatible temp-tables. Names of either the ProDataSet or its buffers do not have
  to match.
 For temp-table parameters or temp-tables passed as part of a
  ProDataSet parameter, the AVM does not check for matching temp-table
  field data types if the SCHEMA-MARSHAL attribute for the temp-table
  is set to "NONE".
 You cannot pass a REFERENCE-ONLY buffer or a BEFORE-TABLE
  buffer as a BUFFER parameter. It also does not matter if a REFERENCE-ONLY
  buffer has been bound. Passing these kinds of buffers as a BUFFER
  parameter (as opposed to passing them as an INPUT or OUTPUT parameter)
  raises a compiler error. Instead of passing the buffer as a parameter,
  you can pass the buffer's temp-table as a BY-REFERENCE TABLE
  or TABLE-HANDLE parameter.
 You cannot pass a BUFFER parameter to a remote procedure. Otherwise,
  the AVM raises a run-time error.
 Class-based objects can be passed between an OpenEdge application
  server and an ABL client. The objects are serialized on the sending side, and a copy is
  deserialized on the receiving side. The following restrictions apply to objects being
  passed as parameters between an OpenEdge application server and client:
• The object's class and all of the classes in its hierarchy must be
    marked as SERIALIZABLE. See the CLASS statement entry for more
    information.
• All of the object's data members that are themselves defined as
    class-based objects must be of class types that are also marked SERIALIZABLE.
• The class must be defined on both the client and server sides, and
    the data members, properties, methods signatures, and events on both sides must match
    exactly.
• The content of static data members is not serialized, and the state
    of queries, buffers, open files, streams, and event subscriptions, for example, are
    not maintained.
• Handle-based variables are serialized, but no information for
    reconstructing handle-based objects on the receiving side is serialized.
• MEMPTRs assigned by an ABL application are serialized, but MEMPTRs
    from an external source (such as a DLL or shared library) are not serialized.
• CHARACTER values are serialized using the codepage defined in
    -cpinternal, and the values are converted using
    the codepage defined for -cpinternal in the session
    that does the deserialization. LONGCHAR values are also converted using -cpinternal unless their codepage is fixed with the
    FIX-CODEPAGE statement, in which case the fixed codepage is used. An error is raised
    if the conversion fails.
• Statically defined temp-tables and ProDataSets in user-defined
    classes are serialized, except for REFERENCE-ONLY tables.
• The REJECTED, ERROR, ERROR-STRING, and DATA-SOURCE-MODIFIED
    attributes for temp-tables in an object are maintained as part of the deserialization
    process. Similarly, the REJECTED and ERROR attributes for ProDataSets are maintained
    during serialization.
• The only built-in object types that can be passed as parameters are
    Progress.Json.ObjectModel.JsonObject, Progress.Json.ObjectModel.JsonArray, and Progress.Json.ObjectModel.ObjectModelParser, and the
    built-in error objects.
•.NET and ABL-extended.NET objects cannot be passed as
    parameters.

  For more information on passing class-based objects as parameters
  between an OpenEdge application server and an ABL client, see the Progress Application Server for OpenEdge Application Migration and
  Development.
 You can pass a temp-table or ProDataSet containing an object reference
  field as a parameter between an OpenEdge application server and an ABL client, as long as
  the objects themselves satisfy the restrictions placed on all class-based objects being
  passed between an OpenEdge application server and an ABL client.
 If you call a remote procedure asynchronously and pass a parameter as
  OUTPUT TABLE-HANDLE temp-table-handle APPEND,
  the event procedure or method must specify a corresponding DEFINE INPUT PARAMETER
  TABLE-HANDLE FOR temp-table-handle APPEND statement,
  and temp-table-handle must be global to both
  the calling procedure and the event procedure or method.
 If you pass a TABLE-HANDLE parameter to a method of a class
  or a class constructor, where the method or constructor is overloaded
  with corresponding TABLE-HANDLE and TABLE parameter definitions,
  the AVM executes the method or constructor that best matches the TABLE-HANDLE
  parameter. If the schema of the TABLE-HANDLE parameter matches the
  schema of the TABLE parameter definition, the AVM executes the method
  or constructor with the TABLE parameter definition. Otherwise, the
  AVM executes the method or constructor with the TABLE-HANDLE parameter
  definition.

  If you pass a TABLE parameter to a similarly overloaded
  method or constructor, the AVM executes the method or constructor
  with a matching TABLE parameter definition. If the AVM cannot identify
  a method or constructor with a matching TABLE parameter definition,
  it executes the method or constructor with the corresponding TABLE-HANDLE
  parameter definition.

  If the AVM cannot locate a method or
  constructor whose temp-table parameter definitions match the corresponding
  TABLE-HANDLE or TABLE parameter, the AVM raises a run-time error
  identifying the ambiguity.
 If you pass a DATASET-HANDLE parameter to a method of a class or
  a class constructor, where the method or constructor is overloaded
  with corresponding DATASET-HANDLE and DATASET parameter definitions,
  the AVM executes the method or constructor that best matches the DATASET-HANDLE
  parameter. If the schema of the DATASET-HANDLE parameter matches
  the schema of the DATASET parameter definition, the AVM executes
  the method or constructor with the DATASET parameter definition.
  Otherwise, the AVM executes the method or constructor with the DATASET-HANDLE
  parameter definition.

  If you pass a DATASET parameter to a similarly
  overloaded method or constructor, the AVM executes the method or
  constructor with a matching DATASET parameter definition. If the
  AVM cannot identify a method or constructor with a matching DATASET
  parameter definition, it executes the method or constructor with
  the corresponding DATASET-HANDLE parameter definition.

  If
  the AVM cannot locate a method or constructor whose ProDataSet parameter
  definitions match the corresponding DATASET-HANDLE or DATASET parameter,
  the AVM raises a run-time error identifying the ambiguity.
 If you pass a class instance to overloaded methods or constructors whose
  corresponding class parameters differ only within the same class hierarchy,
  ABL looks from the bottom of the class hierarchy, starting with the
  most derived class, and chooses any method or constructor whose corresponding
  parameters are defined for the same class as the passed parameter.
  Otherwise, the AVM chooses any method or constructor whose corresponding
  parameters are defined for the most derived class in the same class
  hierarchy, which is also a super class of the passed parameter.
 If you pass a class instance to overloaded methods or constructors whose
  corresponding class parameters differ by one or more interfaces that
  the class implements, only a method or constructor whose corresponding
  class parameter exactly matches the class of the passed parameter
  is acceptable to the compiler. Otherwise, the AVM generates a compile-time
  error for ambiguity, as one implemented interface is no better match
  than another.
 If you pass the Unknown value (?) to a parameter of
  an overloaded method or constructor, the AVM only selects the correct
  method or constructor to execute when passing the Unknown value (?) causes
  no ambiguity among them. Otherwise, the AVM generates a compile-time
  error for ambiguity.
 If you pass an ABL expression to an overloaded method or constructor
  whose data type cannot be known at compile-time (for example, the
  BUFFER-VALUE attribute), the AVM can only call the correct method
  or constructor at run time, and only when the overloaded method
  or constructor differs by more than the parameter with an unknown
  data type. Otherwise, the AVM raises a run-time error for ambiguity.
 You can avoid compile-time ambiguity errors when passing the Unknown value (?) or
  an expression of an unknown data type in one of two ways:
• Convert
    the Unknown value (?) or expression to a specific data
    type using the appropriate ABL data type conversion function to
    pass the value.
• Assign the Unknown value (?) or expression to a variable
    of a specific data type to pass the value.
 If you pass a method of a class as a parameter to another method, constructor,
  procedure, or user-defined function that you invoke, and the method
  parameter executes the RETURN statement with
  the ERROR option, the method, constructor, procedure, or user-defined
  function that you invoke does not run. The AVM then raises ERROR
  on the invoked method, constructor, or procedure. The AVM does not
  raise ERROR on an invoked user-defined function.
• A parameter list that contains the word "DATASET" or
  "BUFFER", where the parameter is not a DATASET or BUFFER parameter, but
  an expression involving those keywords, may be ambiguous, causing a compiler error. If
  this happens, enclosing the expression in parentheses to identify the parameter as an
  expression will usually fix the ambiguity.

See also

Assignment (=) statement, Expression, FUNCTION statement, NEW function (classes), Publish() event method, PUBLISH statement, RUN statement, RUN SUPER statement, SUPER statement, SUPER system reference, THIS-OBJECT statement




PAUSE statement

Suspends processing indefinitely, or for a
specified number of seconds, or until the user presses any key.

Note: Does not apply to SpeedScript programming.

Syntax

n: A numeric expression specifying the number of seconds that you want
    to suspend processing. You can choose a whole or a fractional value for
    the time-out interval. If the time-out period you specify is a fractional value,
    the value is rounded to the nearest whole millisecond.

    If you
    do not use this option, the AVM suspends processing until the user
    presses any key.

BEFORE-HIDE: Specifies the pause action the user must take whenever frames are hidden
    automatically. If you specify n, n is the number
    of seconds the AVM pauses before hiding. If you do not specify n, the
    pause lasts until the user presses a key.

MESSAGE message: Displays the message "Press spacebar to continue" on the status line of the terminal
    screen when the AVM encounters a PAUSE statement. Use the MESSAGE option to override
    that default message. A message is a constant character string.

NO-MESSAGE: Tells the AVM to pause but not to display a message on the status line
    of the terminal screen.

IN WINDOW window: Specifies the window to which the pause action applies. The
    value window must be a handle to a window. If
    you do not use the IN WINDOW phrase, the PAUSE statement applies
    to the current window.

Example

The
FOR EACH block in this procedure reads each of the records from
the Customer table and displays information from each record. Because
the DISPLAY uses a down frame (multiple records displayed in the
frame), the AVM usually fills the window with as many records as
possible and then displays the message: "Press spacebar to continue".
The PAUSE 2 BEFORE-HIDE message tells the AVM to pause only two
seconds before hiding the frame and displaying additional records.

r-pause.p

Notes

 After
  you use PAUSE, that statement is in effect for all the procedures
  run in that session unless it is overridden by other PAUSE statements
  in those procedures, or until you return to the Editor.
 Using the PAUSE n BEFORE-HIDE statement is
  a good way to write a demonstration application that runs by itself.
 The AVM automatically pauses before removing a frame and displays the
  "Press spacebar to continue" message if you have not had a chance
  to see the data in the frame.
 When a PAUSE occurs, the AVM clears any keystrokes buffered
  from the keyboard, discarding any type-ahead characters.




PROCEDURE statement

Defines an internal procedure as an ABL procedure or declares an
internal procedure prototype for an external routine in a Windows dynamic link
library (DLL) or UNIX shared library, or for an internal ABL procedure defined in an
external procedure that is itself a super procedure of the declaration procedure.
The following syntax boxes describe the syntax for each use of the statement,
beginning with an internal procedure definition.

Syntax

This is the syntax to declare an internal procedure prototype for a
routine in a Windows DLL or UNIX shared library, or for an internal ABL procedure
defined in a super procedure:

proc-name: The name of the internal procedure.

    To
    define the name of an internal ABL procedure that is an event handler
    for ActiveX controls (OCX event procedure), you must specify proc-name according to the following
    syntax:

    For more information on naming event handlers for
    ActiveX controls using this syntax, see the notes for this reference
    entry.

EXTERNAL "dllname": Declares the internal procedure as a Windows DLL or UNIX
    shared library routine. The dllname
    argument, specified as a string literal, is the name of the DLL or library
    containing the routine. The value of dllname
    can contain Unicode characters. See Internationalize ABL Applications for more information about
    Unicode.

CDECL: Tells ABL to use the C calling convention when accessing
    the routine.

PASCAL: Supported only for backward compatibility. This option is
    not valid for SpeedScript.

STDCALL: Tells ABL to use the standard Windows calling convention
    when accessing the routine. This is the default.

    Note: The 64-bit Windows GUI and character
    clients ignore the CDECL, PASCAL, and STDCALL calling conventions if
    they are specified. The 64-bit Windows GUI and character clients always
    use the standard 64-bit FASTCALL calling convention.

ORDINAL n: Specifies the number of the DLL entry point (the nth routine) to invoke. If you use the
    ORDINAL option, then proc-name can
    specify any name used in the corresponding RUN statement to reference the
    routine. If you omit the ORDINAL option, proc-name specifies which DLL routine you want to invoke.

    For UNIX shared library routines, this option does not
    apply and is ignored.

PERSISTENT: Specifies that the DLL or shared library routine should
    remain loaded in memory until the AVM exits or the session executes the
    RELEASE EXTERNAL statement.

THREAD-SAFE: Specifies that the DLL or shared library routine is thread
    safe (the developer is responsible for making sure that is the case, for the
    given DLL or shared library). When a DLL or shared library is marked as
    THREAD-SAFE, multiple sessions can access it simultaneously, otherwise
    access to it is single-threaded, that is, only one session can access it at
    a time. This option is only valid when running an application on an instance
    of the Progress Application Server for OpenEdge; otherwise, this option does
    not apply and is ignored.

PRIVATE: Indicates the following about the internal procedure:

     It cannot be invoked from an external
      procedure—that is, from a procedure file external to the current
      procedure file.
     The INTERNAL-ENTRIES attribute on the procedure
      that defines it does not provide its name (unless the procedure that
      defines it is the current procedure file).
     The GET-SIGNATURE method on the procedure that
      defines it does not provide its signature (unless the procedure that
      defines it is the current procedure file).

IN SUPER: Declares that the definition of the internal procedure
    resides in a super procedure.

procedure-body: The body of an internal procedure definition. Define
    procedure-body using the following
    syntax:: procedure-logic: Zero or more ABL statements, depending on the
        internal procedure definition or declaration. Each logic
        statement must end in with a period (.).

        If
        you declare the internal procedure as an ABL procedure,
        these statements can include executable statements and
        non-executable statements including definitions of run-time
        parameters (using the DEFINE PARAMETER statement), local
        program variables, frames, widgets, and buffers. Any such
        objects you define within the internal procedure remain in
        effect only for the life of the internal procedure.

        If you are defining the
        internal procedure for use as an event procedure to handle
        asynchronous remote requests, you can specify run-time
        parameters as INPUT only. (Any other type of parameter
        generates a run-time error.) Each INPUT parameter must
        correspond in order and data type with an OUTPUT (or
        INPUT-OUTPUT) parameter as defined in the remote procedure
        that executes the request.

        If you declare the internal procedure as a
        DLL or UNIX shared library routine (using the EXTERNAL
        option), these statements can include only DEFINE PARAMETER
        statements.

        For more information on accessing DLL or
        UNIX shared library routines from ABL, see the topics on
        DLLs in OpenEdge Programming
        Interfaces.

    catch-block: Specifies a CATCH statement that defines error
        handling code for one or more error types. A DO block does not
        have any default error handling. Therefore, a DO block must have
        error handling options specified such that it becomes an
        undoable block. Otherwise, ABL generates a compiler warning. For
        more information on catch-block, see the CATCH statement reference entry.

    finally-block: Specifies a FINALLY statement that defines the
        processing that must occur after all other processing in the
        block occurs. For more information on finally-block, see the FINALLY statement reference entry.

    END [ PROCEDURE ]: Specifies the end of the internal procedure
        body. If procedure-logic
        contains one or more statements, you must end the internal
        procedure body with the END statement.

Example

The following example declares an ABL internal procedure that
computes the factorial of an integer entered as an INPUT parameter. The result is
returned as an OUTPUT parameter. Note that the following procedure calls itself
recursively to obtain the result:

r-factrl.p

The following example declares a DLL routine, MessageBox(), which displays a message:

r-dllex1.p

The following code fragment declares a UNIX shared library
routine:

Notes

 You can terminate a PROCEDURE statement with either a period
  (.) or a colon (:), but typically use a colon (:) for a procedure definition or
  prototype that includes procedure-body and a
  period (.) for a procedure definition or prototype that omits any procedure-body.
 You can place an internal procedure definition or declaration
  before, after, or in the middle of your main procedure code. You cannot nest an internal procedure within another
  internal procedure.
 Use the RUN statement to invoke an internal procedure. You can
  run an internal procedure from within the external procedure that defines it,
  either from the main-line of the external procedure or from another internal
  procedure defined in the external procedure. You can also run an internal
  procedure defined in another external procedure using the IN proc-handle option of the RUN statement as long
  as the external procedure meets one of these conditions:
• It is active on the procedure call stack
• It is an instance of a persistent procedure
 You cannot define shared objects, work tables, or temp-tables
  within an internal procedure.
 An internal procedure can reference any objects defined in the
  outer procedure block. For example, it can reference variables, buffers
  (explicit or implicit; shared or unshared), variables, run-time parameters,
  named frames, or temp-tables. If you define an object with the same name in the
  internal procedure and the external procedure, a reference within the internal
  procedure resolves to the local object.
 A buffer explicitly defined in an internal procedure is scoped
  to the internal procedure. Any other buffers are scoped to the outer procedure
  block.
 To define the internal procedure as an event handler for
  ActiveX controls (OCX event procedure), you must specify proc-name according to the following
  syntax:

  In control-frame-name.control-name.event-name,
  control-frame-name is the name
  (unquoted) of the control-frame that contains the ActiveX control. This is
  the name that the AppBuilder typically assigns to the control-frame (NAME
  widget attribute) when you insert the control into your user interface. The
  control-name is the value (unquoted)
  that you assign to the control Name property at design time in the
  AppBuilder Property Window. The event-name is the name (unquoted) of the ActiveX control
  event that you want to trigger execution of this procedure.

  In ANYWHERE.event-name,
  ANYWHERE specifies an event procedure that handles the specified event in
  any ActiveX control. This event procedure executes only if you have not
  defined a control-frame-name.control-name.event-name event procedure that exactly matches the
  control/event combination at run time.

  At design
  time, the AppBuilder lists the available events for a control and
  automatically creates a template for the OCX event procedure definition from
  the event that you select. For more information on how to create OCX event
  procedures in the AppBuilder, see the information on ActiveX controls in
  OpenEdge Programming Interfaces. For more
  information on how to work with OCX event procedures in an application, see
  OpenEdge Programming Interfaces.
 When you define an OCX event procedure, you can access the
  component handle (COM-HANDLE value) of the control that generates the event at
  run time using the COM-SELF system handle. You can also access the handle of the
  parent control-frame using the SELF system handle.
 The RETURN-VALUE function provides the value returned by the
  most recently executed RETURN statement of a local or remote procedure.
• You use the call object handle to dynamically invoke a Windows
  DLL routine or UNIX shared library routine at run time.

See also

Call object handle, COM-SELF system handle, DEFINE PARAMETER statement, END statement,
RUN statement, TRIGGER PROCEDURE statement




PROCESS EVENTS statement

Processes all outstanding events without blocking
for user input.

Syntax

Example

This
procedure counts to 1,000 until you choose STOP:

r-proevs.p

On each pass through the loop, the procedure
displays the new value of ix and then checks whether
any events are waiting to be processed. If no events have occurred,
execution continues and the loop iterates. If the STOP button has
been chosen, that event is processed changing the value of stop-sel.
When execution continues, the program exits the loop.

If the
loop does not contain the PROCESS EVENTS statement, the choose event
never processes and the loop iterates until ix equals 1,000.

Notes

 The
  WAIT-FOR statement processes all pending events and blocks all other
  execution until a specified event occurs. The PROCESS EVENTS statement
  processes all pending events and immediately continues execution
  with the next statement.
 If there are any asynchronous requests for which PROCEDURE-COMPLETE
  events have been received but not yet processed, this statement
  processes these events as described for the WAIT-FOR statement.
 You cannot call the.NET method system.Windows.Forms.Application:DoEvent()
  in ABL. The PROCESS EVENTS statement performs the function of this
  method..NET can raise exceptions in the context of an ABL session
  when this statement executes.
• In the context of the.NET blocking method, System.Windows.Forms.Application:Run(), if you execute the PROCESS EVENTS
  statement for a non-modal ABL window from within a user-defined function or non-VOID
  method, this statement raises the STOP condition. For more information on the.NET Application:Run() method, see the reference entry for the
  WAIT-FOR statement (.NET and ABL).

See also

WAIT-FOR statement (ABL only), WAIT-FOR statement (.NET and ABL)




PUBLISH statement

Causes an ABL named event to occur.

Note: ABL named events are completely different from
the key function, mouse, widget, and direct manipulation events
described in the Handle-based Object Events Reference. They are also different from the class
events described in the Class Events Reference.

Syntax

event-name: A quoted character string or character expression representing
    the name of a named event. If you use a quoted character string,
    ABL adds event-name to the PUBLISHED-EVENTS attribute's
    list of events.

FROM publisher-handle: A procedure or handle representing the procedure or widget to which
    ABL attributes the named event.

    The FROM option lets a procedure
    publish an event on behalf of another procedure or widget. For example,
    if you want procedure A to publish a named event on behalf of procedure
    B, set publisher-handle to the procedure handle
    of B.

    If the FROM option does not appear, ABL attributes
    the event to THIS-PROCEDURE, the procedure that contains the PUBLISH
    statement.

    Note: If the FROM option does not appear
    and the PUBLISH statement occurs in a nonpersistent procedure that
    does not publicize its handle, potential subscribers have no way
    of knowing the handle's value, and can subscribe to the event only
    by using the SUBSCRIBE statement's ANYWHERE option.

(parameter [, parameter]...): The parameters, if any, of the named event.

    As in the RUN
    statement, you must supply a value for each INPUT and INPUT-OUTPUT
    parameter and a variable for each OUTPUT parameter.

    Also,
    if a named event has one or more parameters, the PUBLISH statement
    and each subscriber's local internal procedure (which the SUBSCRIBE
    statement names and which the AVM runs when the named event occurs)
    must specify identical signatures-where signature means
    the number of parameters and the data type and mode (INPUT, etc.)
    for each.

    Note: When the named event occurs and
    the AVM runs each subscriber's local internal procedure, if the
    signature of a local internal procedure does not match the signature
    in the PUBLISH statement, the AVM reports a run-time error. Since
    the PUBLISH statement runs with an implicit NO-ERROR, errors are stored
    in the ERROR-STATUS handle.

    The parameter syntax is identical
    to that of the RUN statement. For its specification, see the Parameter passing syntax reference entry.

Examples

The
following example consists of four procedure files: a driver, a publisher,
and two subscribers. The driver, r-nedrvr.p,
runs the publisher and the two subscribers persistently, then subscribes
to the event NewCustomer on behalf of the second subscriber.

r-nedrivr.p

The publisher, r-nepub.p,
publishes the event NewCustomer:

r-nepub.p

The first subscriber, nesub1.p,
subscribes to the event NewCustomer:

r-nesub1.p

The second subscriber, nesub2.p,
already subscribed to the event NewCustomer, cancels all subscriptions:

r-nesub2.p

To start the example, run the driver, r-nedrvr.p.

Notes

 If
  a named event has multiple subscribers, the order in which the AVM
  notifies subscribers is undefined.
 INPUT-OUTPUT parameters can accumulate values from a set of subscribers.
  When a subscriber receives an INPUT-OUTPUT parameter, it has the
  value that the previous subscriber set it to. When the publisher receives
  an INPUT-OUTPUT parameter, it has the value that the last subscriber
  set it to.
 If a named event with multiple subscribers has OUTPUT parameters, each
  time a subscriber sets an OUTPUT parameter, the AVM overwrites the
  previous value. For this reason, Progress Software Corporation recommends that you
  use OUTPUT parameters with named events only when there is a single
  subscriber.
 If a named event has multiple subscribers and several subscribers specify
  a RETURN statement with a return value, the RETURN-VALUE function
  evaluates to the return value set by the last subscriber.
 The AVM executes the PUBLISH statement with an implicit NO-ERROR
  option. To find out if any errors occurred, and if so, which ones,
  use the ERROR-STATUS system handle.
 If publisher-handle is a handle, the value
  of SOURCE-PROCEDURE in each of the subscribers' internal procedures will
  be the handle of the procedure that created the widget.

See also

Publish() event method, PUBLISHED-EVENTS attribute, SUBSCRIBE statement, UNSUBSCRIBE statement




QUIT statement

Raises the QUIT condition. By default, this exits from the
ABL session and returns to the operating system.

When QUIT is executed from within a
procedure running on an application server, it terminates the request and closes the
connection to the client that initiated the request.

When QUIT is executed from within a procedure running on a
Progress Application Server for OpenEdge (PAS for OpenEdge), the ABL session is reset to its
initial state, which includes deletion of persistent procedures and static ABL objects, the
disconnection of databases (or re-connection if the databases were connected at startup),
and the clean-up of all global data, such as shared variables. Control then returns to the
ABL client session from which the server session was accessed, and the server session is
returned to its PAS for OpenEdge session pool for access by other client requests.

Note: Does not apply to SpeedScript programming.

Syntax

Example

This procedure displays a menu. If you choose the last menu item, Exit ABL,
the procedure processes the QUIT statement.

r-quit1.p

Notes

 To modify the QUIT statement, add the ON
  QUIT phrase to a block.
 If QUIT is executed during a transaction, the AVM
  commits the transaction before exiting.
• In a PAS for OpenEdge application, you typically use this statement for
  a client connected using the session-managed application model. In this case, you execute
  QUIT as the final statement in the PAS for OpenEdge
  Disconnect procedure after setting the SERVER-CONNECTION-BOUND-REQUEST attribute on the SESSION handle to FALSE. This cleans up the server session for access by the
  next client request.

See also

ON QUIT phrase, STOP statement




RANDOM function

Returns a random INTEGER value between two
integers (inclusive).

Note: This function returns
a number from a pseudorandom sequence of numbers rather than
a truly random sequence.

The Alternate Random Number Generator (-rand) parameter determines whether
the same sequence of random numbers is generated for each session. For information on this
parameter, see Startup Command and Parameter Reference.

Syntax

low: An integer expression that is the lower of the two expressions you are
    supplying to the RANDOM function. This can be an INT64 value.

high: An integer expression that is the higher of the two expressions you
    are supplying to the RANDOM function. This can be an INT64 value.

Example

Often
when you set up a database for testing purposes, you want to generate many
records without actually keying in data for each record. The r-random.p procedure
generates 10 Order records and a random number of OrderLines for
each Order record.

r-random.p




REPEAT statement

Begins a block of statements that are processed repeatedly until the block
ends. An END statement is used to terminate a REPEAT
block.

Syntax

This is the syntax for the REPEAT block:

FOR record[, record]...: Names a record buffer and scopes the buffer to the block. The scope
    of a record determines when the buffer is cleared and the record written back to the
    database. See Develop ABL Applications for more
    information on record scoping and blocks.

    To access a record in a table defined for multiple databases, you
    must qualify the record's table name with the database name. See Record phrase for more information.

preselect-phrase: Goes through a table to select the records that meet the criteria you specify in a
    record-phrase. PRESELECT
    creates a temporary index that contains pointers to each of the preselected records in
    the database table. You can then use other statements, such as FIND
    NEXT, to process those records. This is the syntax for the preselect-phrase:

    For more information, see PRESELECT phrase.

query-tuning-phrase: Allows programmatic control over the execution of a DataServer query. This is the
    syntax for the query-tuning-phrase:

    For more information see the OpenEdge DataServer Guides (Use the Microsoft SQL Data Server and Use the Microsoft SQL Data Server).

variable = expression1 TO expression2 [ BY k ]: Indicates the name of a field or variable whose value you are incrementing in a loop.
    expression1 is the starting value for variable on the first iteration of the loop. k is the amount to add to variable after each iteration and must be a constant. When variable exceeds expression2 (or is less than expression2 if k is negative), the
    loop ends. Because expression1 is compared to
    expression2 at the start of the first iteration
    of the block, the block can be executed zero times. expression2 is reevaluated with each iteration of the block.

WHILE expression: The REPEAT block iterates as long as the condition specified by
    expression is TRUE. expression is any combination of constants, field names, and variable
    names that yield a logical value.

TRANSACTION: Identifies the REPEAT block as a
    system transaction block. The AVM starts a system transaction for each iteration of a
    transaction block if there is no active system transaction. See Develop ABL Applications for more information on transactions.

stop-after-phrase: Specifies a time-out value (in seconds) for the block. This is the syntax for the
    STOP-AFTER phrase:

    For more information see STOP-AFTER phrase.

on-endkey-phrase: Describes the processing that takes place when the ENDKEY condition occurs
    during a block. This is the syntax for the ON ENDKEY phrase:

    For more information see the ON ENDKEY phrase.

on-error-phrase: Describes the processing that takes place when there is an error during a block. This
    is the syntax for the ON ERROR phrase:

    For more information see the ON ERROR phrase.

on-quit-phrase: Describes the processing that takes place when a QUIT statement is
    executed during a block. This is the syntax for the ON QUIT
    phrase:

    For more information see the ON QUIT phrase.

on-stop-phrase: Describes the processing that takes place when the STOP conditions
    occurs during a block. This is the syntax for the ON STOP phrase:

    For more information see the ON STOP phrase.

frame-phrase: Specifies the overall layout and processing properties of a frame. This is the syntax
    for the frame phrase:

    For more information, see the Frame phrase.

Example

In this menu procedure, if you press END-ERROR or ENDKEY when prompted for your menu selection, any selection data you have entered is
undone and the procedure continues to prompt you:

r-rpt.p

Notes

 Within a REPEAT block, if you are
  using the FIND NEXT or FIND
  PREV statement and you change the value of an index field, the AVM makes that
  change in the index table at the end of the UPDATE or
  SET statement. Therefore, if you change the value so
  that the record appears later in the index table, you see the record again if you FIND NEXT. If you change the value so that the record appears
  earlier in the index table, you see the record again if you FIND
  PREV.

  In this example, if you change Customer 1 to Customer 300, you
  see that Customer record again at the end of the procedure.

  When
  you use the PRESELECT option, the AVM builds a special
  index table that is not updated when index values change:

  In this example, if you change Customer 2 to Customer 200, you
  do not see that Customer record until you look it up with a new procedure.
 For SpeedScript, the on-endkey-phrase and on-quit-phrase are
  not valid options.

See also

DO statement, END statement, Frame phrase, ON ENDKEY phrase, ON ERROR phrase, ON QUIT phrase, ON STOP phrase, Record phrase, STOP-AFTER phrase




RETRY function

Returns a TRUE value if the current block is being reprocessed after a
previous UNDO, RETRY.

Syntax

Example

Notes
• Using the RETRY function in a block turns off the
  default error processing, which result in no infinite loop protection for the block.

See also

UNDO statement




RETURN-VALUE function

Provides a character string value returned
by the most recently executed RETURN statement of a local or remote
procedure, trigger block, user-defined function, method of a class,
class constructor, or property accessor.

Syntax

Example

For
examples of the RETURN-VALUE function, see the RETURN statement reference
entry.

Notes

 The
  returned value has the CHARACTER data type.
 When you access RETURN-VALUE, its value represents the value returned
  by the most recently executed RETURN or THROW:
• If it is a
    RETURN with options that can set the RETURN-VALUE, but does not,
    the empty string ("") is returned.
• If it is a THROW that returns a Progress.Lang.AppError object, the
    value of the object's ReturnValue property is returned.
 To reliably access a RETURN-VALUE setting returned from a block or
  called routine, check RETURN-VALUE as soon as you can after the block
  or called routine terminates.
 RETURN-VALUE does not return the value of a non-VOID method of
  a class or user-defined function invocation. You return the values
  of these methods and functions within an expression where you reference their
  invocations, similar to referencing a variable value.

See also

CREATE SERVER statement, ON ENDKEY phrase, ON ERROR phrase, RETURN statement, UNDO statement




RETURN statement

Leaves the local or remote procedure, user-defined function,
ON trigger, method of a class, class constructor or destructor, or
property accessor, and returns to the caller. If there is no caller, returns to the
Procedure Editor or Progress Developer Studio for OpenEdge tool.

Syntax

return-value: This has different behavior depending on whether a value can be
    returned from the current context. From contexts that don’t return a value, this is
    used to set RETURN-VALUE.

    For a procedure or ON trigger block, the value is
    used to set RETURN-VALUE:

     If return-value is specified,
      it must be a CHARACTER expression.
     If return-value is not
      specified, RETURN-VALUE is set to the empty string ("").
     To retrieve the return-value,
      access the RETURN-VALUE function from the caller.

    For a user-defined function, non-VOID method, or property
    accessor:

     Return-value must be
      specified.
     Return-value must be an
      expression whose data type matches the return type of the function, method, or
      property; data type matching between the expression and return type follows the
      data type widening rules for an expression passed to an OUTPUT parameter (see the
      Parameter passing syntax entry for more information).
     To retrieve the return-value from the caller, simply reference the function or method
      call in an expression.

    For a VOID method, you cannot set a return-value.

ERROR: Causes an ERROR condition in the
    calling block.

    You cannot use the ERROR option in a user-interface trigger block to raise
    ERROR outside of the trigger block.

    RETURN ERROR in a user-defined
    function does not raise ERROR in the caller.
    Instead, it sets the target variable of the function to the Unknown value (?). See ABL Error Handling
    for more information.

error-return-value: Any CHARACTER expression.

    To retrieve the return
    value in the caller, catch the Progress.Lang.AppError
    using a CATCH statement and obtain the ReturnValue property of the AppError. Alternatively, the caller can access the RETURN-VALUE function.

    If you do
    not specify either error-return-value or error-object-expression, both the RETURN-VALUE function as well as the
    AppError
    ReturnValue property is set to the empty
    string("").

error-object-expression: An expression that resolves to a specific error object. It must be an
    object derived from Progress.Lang.ProError or an
    object of a class that implements Progress.Lang.Error. The compiler generates an error if these rules are not
    met. Note that the only error object you can instantiate directly is a Progress.Lang.AppError object or a subclass.

    RETURN ERROR
    error-object-expression immediately returns to the
    caller before throwing the error object.

NO-APPLY: Suppresses the default behavior for the current user-interface event.
    You thus can use the NO-APPLY option in a user-interface trigger block
    to suppress that behavior. For example, the default behavior for a character code key
    press in a fill-in field is to echo the character in the field. If you execute
    RETURN NO-APPLY in a trigger, this behavior is not performed. Also,
    NO-APPLY returns without setting a return-value or error object.

Examples

The following code demonstrates using RETURN in a
user-defined function.

Output:

The following code illustrates using RETURN ERROR in a
user-defined function.

Output:

The following code demonstrates using RETURN ERROR with
an error object.

Output:

Notes

 The RETURN-VALUE function provides the value set by
  the most recently executed RETURN statement.
 If a procedure executing the RETURN
  statement is called asynchronously, the client can access the return-value and ERROR condition in the
  associated event procedure or method.
 Class-based error objects can be thrown from an application server and
  handled by a CATCH block on an ABL client. To be
  throwable from an application server to an ABL client, user-defined error classes must be
  defined on both the server and client sides, and the classes must be defined as SERIALIZABLE. For the full list of restrictions on class-based
  objects that are passed between application server and client, see the Parameter passing syntax entry. For more information on error
  handling in general, see ABL Error Handling.
 Class-based error objects can also be thrown from an application server
  to a client for an asynchronous request. Using RETURN
  ERROR is one way to do this. In this case, the error object is returned to the
  client via the ERROR-OBJECT attribute of the
  Asynchronous request object handle.

See also

CONSTRUCTOR statement, DEFINE PROPERTY statement, ERROR-OBJECT attribute, FUNCTION statement, METHOD statement, ON ENDKEY phrase, ON ERROR phrase, ON QUIT phrase, ON STOP phrase, RETURN-VALUE function, UNDO statement




RUN statement

Calls an ABL procedure. This procedure can be local to or remote
from the current session, external from or internal to the current procedure, and
either synchronous or asynchronous. When a local or remote procedure is called
synchronously, the calling procedure resumes execution only after the called
procedure completes execution. When a remote procedure is called asynchronously, the
calling procedure resumes execution immediately after the remote request is sent to
the application server.

The RUN statement can also call
functions or routines that reside in the Windows Dynamic Link Libraries (DLLs) or in
UNIX shared libraries. The called routine must first be declared like an ABL
internal procedure. The procedure declaration must be in the same file as the
RUN statement.

You can also use the RUN statement
to create and associate a procedure object with a Web service, and invoke a Web
service operation.

Syntax

Use the following syntax to run an external procedure or method:

Use the following syntax to run an internal procedure or method:

Use the following syntax to create and associate a procedure object
with a Web service:

Use the following syntax to invoke a Web service operation:

extern-proc-name: The name of the (local or remote) external procedure to
    run. On UNIX, external procedure names are case sensitive; in Windows, they
    are not. If you specify a relative pathname, ABL searches the directories
    (and libraries, on platforms that support libraries) defined in the PROPATH environment variable. With extern-proc-name, you can specify a local or
    remote procedure. In Windows, the pathname cannot contain characters outside
    of the non-Unicode code page. See Internationalize
    ABL Applications for more information about Unicode and code
    pages.

VALUE (extern-expression): An expression that returns the name of the (local or
    remote) external procedure you want to run.In Windows, the pathname cannot
    contain characters outside of the non-Unicode code page.

path-name>: The pathname of an r-code library and the name of an r-code
    file in that library. To specify an r-code file in a library, you must use
    the double angle brackets as shown. If you specify a relative library
    pathname, ABL searches the libraries defined in the PROPATH environment
    variable. In Windows, the pathname cannot contain characters outside of the
    non-Unicode code page.

PERSISTENT [SET proc-handle]: Specifies that the external procedure be instantiated and
    run as a persistent procedure.

    You can return the handle
    to the persistent procedure in proc-handle
    specified as a field, variable, class property, or output
    parameter defined with the HANDLE data type. If you do not specify
    proc-handle, you can find the
    procedure handle for this procedure using the FIRST-PROCEDURE or LAST-PROCEDURE attributes of the SESSION system handle.

    For remote
    persistent procedures, proc-handle
    returns the proxy (remote) handle to the persistent procedure. You can
    also find the proxy handle by using the FIRST-PROCEDURE or LAST-PROCEDURE attributes of the server object handle for
    the application server specified with the ON
    SERVER option.

    A persistent
    procedure creates and maintains its context after it returns to the
    caller. Other external procedures can access this context through
    procedure triggers and internal procedures or user-defined functions
    defined in the persistent procedure. A RUN statement that runs and creates a persistent procedure
    context is referred to as an instantiating RUN
    statement. Thus, a persistent procedure has the following
    characteristics:

     The procedure does not go out of scope when it
      returns: its context and most of its allocated resources remain
      active, including input parameters, widgets, variables, buffers,
      temp-tables, work tables, and triggers created during procedure
      execution. However, all static dialog boxes,
      their child widgets, and related triggers created during its
      execution are destroyed when the procedure returns to the caller.
      This makes all other windows and dialog boxes in the application
      available for input.
     All buffers passed as parameters to a persistent
      procedure are treated as local buffers in the persistent context.
      When the procedure instantiation returns, the output value of the
      buffer parameter is returned, as usual, to the calling procedure.
      However, any cursor positioning established during execution of the
      instantiating RUN statement is lost to the persistent context once
      the procedure returns; the AVM creates a copy of the buffer
      parameter and resets its cursors as an initially defined local
      buffer.
     If the procedure obtains any schema share locks
      (through database access) while executing, these remain in effect
      after the procedure returns, until the procedure is deleted.
     Each time you run a procedure persistently, you
      create a new instance of its procedure context. All of its data,
      buffers, and widgets are duplicated and separately managed by the
      new instantiation until the procedure instance is deleted.

    Note:

    If you run an application that creates persistent
    procedures from an ADE tool (for example, the Procedure Editor or
    AppBuilder), that tool removes all instances of persistent
    procedures still created when the application terminates.

    Transaction scoping is the same whether you run a
    procedure as persistent or not. Any transaction which begins inside
    a persistent procedure is scoped to the block that starts the
    transaction.

    The order of the PERSISTENT option and the ON
    SERVER option is interchangeable.

    You can use PERSIST as an abbreviation for PERSISTENT.

    If you want to invoke persistent procedures on a
    session-free Progress Application Server (PAS) for OpenEdge server,
    use either SINGLE-RUN or SINGLETON as an alternative to the
    PERSISTENT option.

SINGLE-RUN [SET proc-handle]: Initializes the specified external procedure to run on an
    application server or on the client (by using a SESSION handle) in single-run mode, but it does not initially
    run the procedure.

    The SINGLE-RUN option is particularly useful for a
    session-free PAS for OpenEdge instance because it allows you to call
    internal procedures or user-defined functions in a remote external
    procedure without binding the client to a single application server
    session. In addition, network traffic is reduced when you run a
    procedure as a single-run.

    In single-run mode,
    the external procedure is instantiated only when an internal procedure
    or user-defined function that it defines is invoked remotely. The
    single-run procedure is deleted when the internal procedure or
    user-defined function completes. Compare with the SINGLETON option, where the singleton
    procedure remains instantiated after the internal procedure or
    user-defined function completes. See the description under intern-proc-name for more information on
    how internal procedures and user-defined functions run in SINGLE-RUN mode.

    You can return the proxy handle to the single-run procedure in proc-handle specified as a field,
    variable, class property, or output parameter defined with the HANDLE
    data type. If you do not specify proc-handle, you can find the proxy handle for this
    procedure using the FIRST-PROCEDURE
    and LAST-PROCEDURE attributes of the
    server object handle for the application server specified using the
    ON SERVER option.

    Each time you call an internal procedure or
    user-defined function on a single-run procedure, you create a new
    instance of its procedure context, which only exists during the
    execution of the internal procedure or user-defined function. All of its
    data, buffers, and widgets are duplicated and separately managed by the
    new instantiation until the procedure instance is deleted.

    Note:

    You must use the ON
    SERVER option when you use the SINGLE-RUN option.

    You cannot use SINGLE-RUN with external procedures that have
    parameters.

    If you attempt to delete a single-run procedure from
    a client, you only delete the proxy handle. A single-run procedure
    remains instantiated for an application server session only until
    its instantiating internal procedure or user-defined function
    completes execution.

    When a single-run procedure is invoked and the
    procedure is already instantiated as a singleton, the application
    server or client deletes the singleton procedure. The procedure is
    re-instantiated as a single-run. When the execution of the internal
    procedure or user-defined function completes, the application server
    or client deletes the single-run procedure but does not
    re-instantiate the procedure as a singleton.

    You cannot use the ASYNCHRONOUS option with SINGLE-RUN when instantiating an external procedure.
    However you can run an internal procedure of a SINGLE-RUN procedure asynchronously
    using the following syntax: RUNintern\proc-name
    IN
    proc-handle... ASYNCHRONOUS.

    You can use the EXPORT() method on the SESSION handle to add a procedure that will be run in
    single-run mode to the list of authorized remote procedures on the
    application server.

    For single-run procedures, the main block does not
    run until the internal procedure or user-defined function first
    runs. Therefore, an ERROR or
    STOP condition occurring in
    the main block is raised during the first execution of the internal
    procedure or user-defined function.

SINGLETON [SET proc-handle]: Initializes the specified external procedure to run on an
    application server or on the client (by using a SESSION handle) in singleton mode, but it does not initially
    run the procedure.

    The SINGLETON option is particularly useful for a session-free
    application server session because it allows you to call internal
    procedures or user-defined functions in a remote external procedure
    without binding the client to a single application server session. In
    addition, network traffic is reduced when you run a procedure as a
    singleton.

    In singleton mode, the external
    procedure is instantiated only when an internal procedure or
    user-defined-function that it defines is invoked remotely, and only if
    the singleton procedure is not already instantiated for a previous
    internal remote invocation.

    The external
    procedure remains instantiated after its internal procedure or
    user-defined function completes execution. Compare with the single-run
    mode, where the procedure is deleted after an internal procedure or
    user-defined function completes execution. With the SINGLETON option, the external procedure
    remains instantiated and is used the next time one of its internal
    procedures or user-defined functions is run. See the description under
    intern-proc-name for more
    information on how internal procedures and user-defined functions run in
    singleton mode.

    You can return the proxy handle
    to a singleton procedure in proc-handle specified as a field, variable, class
    property, or output parameter defined with the HANDLE data type. If you
    do not specify proc-handle, you can
    find the proxy handle for this procedure using the FIRST-PROCEDURE and LAST-PROCEDURE attributes of the server
    object handle for the application server specified using the ON SERVER option.

    An external procedure called with the SINGLETON option runs in the same way as other procedures,
    but with these differences:

     The procedure does not go out of scope when it
      returns. Most of its allocated resources remain active,
      including objects, variables, buffers, temp-tables, work tables,
      and triggers created during procedure execution. However, you
      should not keep or rely on any context information maintained
      for a singleton procedure. Each application server session
      maintains its own context information independent of (and
      probably differing from) other application server sessions.
      Since there is no guarantee which application server session
      will process a given request, there is no way of knowing what
      context information will be available.
     If the procedure obtains any schema share locks
      (through database access) while executing, these remain in
      effect after the procedure returns, until the procedure is
      deleted.

    Note:

    You must use the ON
    SERVER option when you use the SINGLETON option.

    You cannot use the SINGLETON option with external procedures that have
    parameters.

    Only one instance of a given singleton procedure
    exists for a given application server session, no matter how many
    clients initialize the procedure with the SINGLETON option. Therefore, all clients access the
    same instance of a singleton procedure in requests to the same
    application server session.

    If you attempt to delete a singleton procedure from
    a client using the DELETE PROCEDURE statement,
    you only delete the proxy handle. A singleton remains instantiated
    for an application server session until session code deletes it or
    the session terminates.

    When a single-run procedure is invoked and the
    procedure is already instantiated as a singleton, the application
    server or client deletes the singleton procedure. The procedure is
    re-instantiated as a single-run. When the execution of the internal
    procedure or user-defined function completes, the application server
    or client deletes the single-run procedure but does not
    re-instantiate the procedure as a singleton.

    You cannot use the ASYNCHRONOUS option with SINGLETON when instantiating an external procedure.
    However you can run an internal procedure of a SINGLETON procedure asynchronously
    using the following syntax: RUNintern-proc-nameINproc-handle...
    ASYNCHRONOUS.

    You can use the EXPORT() method on the SESSION handle to add a procedure that will be run as
    a singleton to the list of authorized remote procedures on the
    application server.

    For singleton procedures, the main block does not
    run until the internal procedure or user-defined function first
    runs. Therefore, an ERROR or
    STOP condition occurring in
    the main block is raised during the first execution of the internal
    procedure or user-defined function.

ON [SERVER]server-handle: Tells the AVM to run the procedure remotely in the
    application server that the HANDLE variable, server-handle, refers to.

    With the
    ASYNCHRONOUS option, server-handle causes the called
    procedure to run asynchronously in the remote
    session. Control returns immediately to the statement following the
    RUN statement. Execution of any
    specified event procedure or method occurs in the context of an
    input-blocking or PROCESS EVENTS
    statement.

    The order of any PERSISTENT, SINGLE-RUN, or SINGLETON option and the ON
    SERVER option is interchangeable.

ON [SERVER]session-handle: Tells the AVM to run the procedure locally in the current
    ABL session, specified by the value of the SESSION system handle (session-handle).

    With the ASYNCHRONOUS option, session-handle causes the called
    procedure to run synchronously in the local
    session, followed immediately by execution of any specified event-internal-procedure. Only after
    execution of the specified event-internal-procedure does control return to the
    statement following the RUN
    statement.

    Note: This order of execution is different than
    for a remote procedure call using the server-handle.

    The order of the
    PERSISTENT, SINGLE-RUN, or SINGLETON option and the ON
    SERVER option is interchangeable.

TRANSACTION DISTINCT: Tells the AVM not to propagate the calling procedure's
    transaction to the application server. Although the current version of ABL
    does not allow transaction propagation, future versions might. Thus, to
    accommodate this possibility without breaking current code, the current
    version of ABL allows you to specify this option with server-handle.

    Note: It is an error to specify TRANSACTION
    DISTINCT with a session-handle.

ASYNCHRONOUS [ SET async-request-handle]: Specifies that the remote procedure is to be called as an
    asynchronous request. By default, the remote procedure is called
    synchronously. The handle to the asynchronous request is returned in
    async-request-handle, which must be
    a field, variable, or parameter defined with the HANDLE data type. If you
    specify ASYNCHRONOUS but do not specify
    SET
    async-request-handle, you can find the
    handle for the asynchronous request using the LAST-ASYNC-REQUEST attribute of the server-handle specified by the ON option. You can also locate the asynchronous request handle
    by walking the chain between the FIRST-ASYNC-REQUEST and LAST-ASYNC-REQUEST attributes of server-handle, searching on the PROCEDURE-NAME attribute of each request handle.

    For a Web service operation invoked asynchronously,
    the handle that is set to the asynchronous request object created for
    the asynchronous request.

    Note: You cannot use the ASYNCHRONOUS option with either the
    SINGLE-RUN or SINGLETON option when instantiating an
    external procedure. However you can run an internal procedure of a
    SINGLETON procedure
    asynchronously using the following syntax: RUNinternal\procedureINproc-handle... ASYNCHRONOUS.

EVENT-PROCEDURE event-internal-procedure: Specifies a quoted string or character expression
    representing the name of an internal procedure that resides within procedure-context. When the response from the
    asynchronous request is received (that is, a PROCEDURE-COMPLETE event occurs), the specified internal
    procedure is called during subsequent execution of a PROCESS EVENTS or input-blocking statement
    (such as WAIT-FOR). The specified
    event-internal-procedure processes
    any parameters and errors returned from the asynchronous request. If not
    specified, no event procedure is executed when the PROCEDURE-COMPLETE event occurs for the asynchronous
    request.

    For information on how the event-internal-procedure handles
    parameters from the asynchronous request, see the parameter option. For information on how
    the event-internal-procedure handles
    errors from the asynchronous request, see the NO-ERROR option.

    Note: The EVENT-PROCEDURE and IN keyword syntax are now replaced by the EVENT-HANDLER and the EVENT-HANDLER-CONTEXT keywords.
    Progress recommends that you use the new syntax that supports both
    procedures and methods as callback for ASYNCHRONOUS RUN..

IN procedure-context: A handle to an active procedure that contains the internal
    procedure specified by event-internal-procedure. If not specified, THIS-PROCEDURE is used as the procedure-context value.

    Note: The EVENT-PROCEDURE
    and IN keyword syntax are now
    replaced by the EVENT-HANDLER and the
    EVENT-HANDLER-CONTEXT keywords.
    Progress recommends that you use the new syntax that supports both
    procedures and methods as callback for ASYNCHRONOUS RUN.

EVENT-HANDLER event-handler-name: A character expression that results in the name of an
    internal procedure or a method that is specified as a callback handler. When
    the response from the asynchronous request is received (that is, a PROCEDURE-COMPLETE event occurs), the
    specified event-handler-name (procedure
    or method) is called during subsequent execution of PROCESS EVENTS or input-blocking statement
    (such as WAIT-FOR). The specified event
    handler procedure or method processes any parameters and errors returned
    from the asynchronous request. If not specified, no event procedure or
    method is executed when the PROCEDURE-COMPLETE event occurs for the asynchronous request.
    For information on how the event procedure or method handles parameters from
    the asynchronous request, see the parameter option. For information on how the event handler
    (procedure or method) handles errors from the asynchronous request, see the
    NO-ERROR option.

    When using a method as a callback handler, you can overload the method
    and the AVM will identify the most appropriate method to run by using
    the the signature of the method. The signature of the method is
    determined based on the output and input-output parameters passed to the
    asynchronous procedure executed by the RUN statement.

EVENT-HANDLER-CONTEXT event-handler-context: The event-handler-context value resolves to either a handle
    to an active procedure or the object-oriented ABL object containing the
    method specified by event-handler-name.

     If the value of event-handler-context is an object-oriented ABL
      object, then the event-handler-name specified must be a public
      method.
     The value of event-handler-context may optionally be THIS-PROCEDURE when the RUN statement is invoked from
      within a runnable block of a procedure.
     The value of event-handler-context may optionally be THIS-OBJECT when the RUN statement is invoked from
      within a runnable block of an object-oriented ABL object.

(parameter [, parameter ]...): Specifies one or more parameters to pass to the called
    procedure or method.

    For the parameter passing syntax,
    see the Parameter passing syntax reference entry.

    Parameters must be defined in the called procedure or method. (See the
    DEFINE PARAMETER statement reference entry.) They must be passed in the
    same order as they are defined, and they must have compatible data
    types. The AVM attempts to convert values for data types that do not
    match. If the AVM cannot convert the value for a mismatched data type,
    the RUN statement fails with an error condition.

    For OUTPUT parameters of an asynchronous remote procedure call only,
    you can specify parameter-name AS
    primitive-type-name as a
    prototype. The parameter-name is an
    arbitrary place-holder name and primitive-type-name must specify the ABL data type of the
    corresponding OUTPUT parameter in the asynchronous remote procedure. You
    can also specify OUTPUT parameters for an asynchronous remote procedure
    or method using a local field,
    variable, TABLE temp-table-name, TABLE-HANDLE temp-table-handle, DATASET dataset-name, or DATASET-HANDLE dataset-handle. However, note that the
    asynchronous remote procedure or method does not return any values to
    OUTPUT or INPUT-OUTPUT parameters on the RUN statement. These parameters
    are place holders only for values returned by the remote procedure to
    the specified event-handler-name
    procedure or method.

    Any specified event-handler-name procedure or method
    can define only INPUT parameters and must define one INPUT parameter for
    each OUTPUT or INPUT-OUTPUT parameter defined in the asynchronous remote
    procedure. Each INPUT parameter for the event-handler-name procedure or method, must match the
    corresponding remote procedure OUTPUT or INPUT-OUTPUT parameter in order
    and data type. (As with other procedures or methods, the AVM attempts to
    convert the values for data types that do not match.) The asynchronous
    remote procedure returns the values of these parameters to the INPUT
    parameters of the event-handler-name procedure or method after the remote
    procedure completes execution and the client session processes the
    associated PROCEDURE-COMPLETE event.

    If you are
    running a event-handler-name
    procedure or method declared as a Windows dynamic link library (DLL) or
    UNIX shared library routine, you must match any RETURN parameter
    specified by a DEFINE PARAMETER
    statement with a corresponding OUTPUT parameter in the RUN statement. If
    the internal procedure does not specify the RETURN parameter, do not
    specify the corresponding OUTPUT parameter in the RUN statement.

    For external procedures, the parenthesized list of run-time parameters
    must precede any compile-time arguments.

argument: A constant, field name, variable name,
    or expression that you want to pass as a compile-time argument to the
    external procedure you are running.

    When you pass arguments to an
    external procedure, the AVM converts those arguments to character format.
    ABL recompiles the called procedure, substitutes arguments, and then runs
    the procedure. You cannot precompile a procedure to which you pass
    arguments. (If you use shared variables instead of arguments, the procedure
    can be precompiled. This yields more efficient code.)

    Note: You cannot pass compile-time arguments in a call to an
    internal procedure.

NO-ERROR: The NO-ERROR option is used to prevent the statement from raising
    ERROR and displaying error messages.
    This does not mean that all errors produced by the
    called procedure are suppressed; only errors caused by the RUN statement itself.

    If
    a specified local or synchronous remote procedure throws an error back
    to the RUN statement, you can check
    the ERROR-STATUS system handle for
    information on errors that occurred.

    For an
    asynchronous remote procedure, the result depends on where the errors
    occur. If the errors occur during the send phase of the asynchronous
    request, this raises the ERROR
    condition on the RUN statement in the
    client which will be handled by the NO-ERROR option. If the errors occur during execution of
    the remote request and are returned by the application server, the
    RUN statement completes
    successfully and you must check for ERROR or STOP
    conditions in the specified event-handler-name
    (procedure or method) for the PROCEDURE-COMPLETE event. In the event handler, you check
    the attributes of the async-request-handle.

    If the specified procedure is not found or if
    an attempted compile of the same fails, the AVM raises the STOP condition (for local procedures) or
    ERROR condition (for remote
    procedures). So only in the remote case can NO-ERROR be used to handle these conditions.

intern-proc-name: The name of the (local or remote) internal procedure you
    want to run. The procedure must be declared in the same procedure file
    as the RUN statement that calls it
    unless you specify the IN
    proc-handle option or use a super
    procedure.

    If you do not specify the IN
    proc-handle option and there is no
    internal procedure declared by the specified name, the AVM tries to run
    an external procedure with the specified name. If the internal procedure
    is remote, you must specify the IN
    proc-handle option to identify the
    remote persistent, single-run, or singleton procedure that defines the
    internal procedure on an application server.

    If an internal procedure or user-defined function is run
    using the proc-handle associated
    with a single-run procedure, the application server session or
    client:

     Instantiates the single-run procedure.
     Runs the main block.
     Runs the internal procedure or user-defined
      function.
     Returns any output parameters or return values to
      the caller.
     Deletes the single-run procedure.

    If an internal procedure or user-defined function is run
    using the proc-handle associated
    with a singleton procedure, the application server session or
    client:

     Instantiates the singleton procedure if it is not
      already instantiated by a previous client singleton request.
     Runs the main block.
     Runs the internal procedure or user-defined
      function.
     Returns any output parameters or return values to
      the caller.
     The singleton procedure remains instantiated.

    Note: For more information on running remote
    user-defined functions, see the FUNCTION statement
    section.

VALUE (intern-expression): An expression that evaluates to the name of the internal
    procedure you want to run.

IN proc-handle: Specifies the handle of the external procedure that
    declares the internal procedure you want to run. You can specify
    proc-handle as a field,
    variable, parameter, or expression that specifies a valid procedure
    handle or proxy (remote) persistent procedure handle.

portTypeName: The name of a Web service PortType as specified in the
    WSDL file.

hPortType: A handle to a procedure object that encapsulates a Web
    service operation.

hWebService: A handle to the server object bound to the Web service.

operationName: The name of a Web service operation specified in a WSDL
    file.

Examples

The following procedure displays a simple menu. The user's selection
is stored in the selection variable. The INDEX
function returns an integer value that indicates the position of the user's
selection in a string of characters ("12345"). If the value in the selection
variable is not in the list of values, the INDEX
function returns a 0. The VALIDATE statement
ensures that the INDEX function did not return a
zero. If it did, VALIDATE displays the message,
"Not a valid choice".

r-run.p

In the RUN statement, the INDEX function returns the position of the user's
selection in a character string. Suppose you chose option 2 from the menu. That
option occupies the second position in the "12345" character string. Therefore, the
INDEX function returns the number two (2).
Using this number, the RUN statement reads,
RUN VALUE(programs[2]). According to the
assignments at the top of the procedure, the value of programs[2] is custedit.p. Now the RUN statement reads, RUN custedit.p,
and the r-run.p procedure runs the custedit.p procedure.

The following two external procedures, r-runper.p and r-perprc.p,
illustrate the PERSISTENT and IN
proc-handle options of the RUN statement. The first procedure, a non-persistent
control procedure, sets up a window to run and manage the second procedure as a
persistent procedure.

r-runper.p

r-perprc.p

The control procedure, r-runper.p, runs r-perprc.p
each time you choose the Start Customer Query button. Each time it runs, r-perprc.p creates (instantiates) an additional
context instance for the persistent procedure, including an additional window to
open customer queries. When you choose the Recall All Hidden Queries button from the
control window, r-runper.p calls the
recall-query internal procedure in each instance of r-perprc.p to redisplay its window. Similarly, when you choose the
Exit button, r-runper.p calls the
destroy-query internal procedure in each instance of r-perprc.p to delete its context instance; r-runper.p then applies the RETURN event to itself
to terminate by completing the WAIT-FOR
statement.

The r-perprc.p procedure sets
up a customer query that you can re-open three different ways: by name, by balance,
or by credit. Each instance of r-perprc.p
maintains a separate query for its own local customer buffer. Note that by testing
and setting attributes of the THIS-PROCEDURE
system handle, r-perprc.p can run either
persistently or non-persistently. The basic difference is how the procedure
maintains its own context. For example, when running persistently, it defines a
trigger on the bCancel button to run its own deletion procedure, destroy-query, to
terminate; when running non-persistently, it completes a WAIT-FOR statement with the bCancel button to terminate.

The following example shows how you might implement an asynchronous
request. The procedure r-async.p runs
persistently from a user-interface trigger, perhaps in response to a menu choice.
This procedure, in turn, sends a request to run runReport.p on an application server, which provides an inventory
report for the specified date.

When r-async.p returns, the
user-interface trigger ends and the application returns to its WAIT-FOR state. The user continues to use the
application in the normal way while the inventory report runs on the application
server.

When runReport.p finishes
running, a PROCEDURE-COMPLETE event occurs. This event causes the internal procedure
reportDone to run automatically within the context of the application's WAIT-FOR statement. Whatever the user is doing in the
application, reportDone displays an alert box indicating whether or not the
inventory report completed successfully and the number of lines (numLines) that were
output for the report. (The bold ABL statements indicate the code required to
support asynchronous requests to run runReport.p.)

This example shows an asynchronous call that potentially returns an
error object through the ERROR-OBJECT attribute of
the Asynchronous request object handle. When server-error.p completes, procDone checks the value of ERROR, and if true, it assigns the instance
referenced by ERROR-OBJECT to myAppErrorObj via a cast and then displays the
information available, including the attributes inherited from Progress.Lang.Error and an ErrorCode attribute from the user-defined UserDefinedAppError class.

r-client-async-error.p

The example r-singlerun.p
illustrates how to run any internal procedure in aproc.p as a single-run. The application server does not become
bound to the client and network traffic is minimized when you run a procedure as
single-run.

When the client executes the RUN aproc.pstatement, a proxy handle to the single-run procedure on the application
server is set without sending a message to the application server. When the client
sends the request to run internalProcA, the
application server runs the main block of aproc.p
and then runs the internal procedure internalProcA. After internalProcAcompletes and ends, the application server deletes the single-run
procedure. The final line deletes the proxy handle on the client without sending a
message to the application server.

r-singlerun.p

Compare r-singlerun.p with
r-singleton.p. In both cases, the
application server does not become bound to the client and network traffic is
minimized. However, after internalProcA runs in
r-singleton.p, the singleton procedure
aproc.p is not deleted. It remains
instantiated and is available when the call is made to run internalProcB.

r-singleton.p

Notes

 When you run a procedure and do not indicate that the procedure
  is external, the AVM first looks for an internal procedure with the specified
  name. You indicate that a procedure is external in a RUN statement by specifying one or more of these options: path-name>, PERSISTENT, ON SERVER, SINGLE-RUN, SINGLETON. If no internal procedure is found, or if you indicated
  the procedure is external, the AVM (local or remote) searches all the
  directories and libraries in its PROPATH for a usable r-code file of the same
  name. If the AVM cannot find an r-code file and there is a source code file of
  the same name, the AVM attempts to compile and run the source code file. Note
  that all searches for procedure names are not case sensitive.
 ABL procedures can be run recursively (a procedure can run
  itself).
 When a RUN statement raises
  the STOP condition, the AVM displays the
  resulting messages on the current output device, even if you specify NO-ERROR. The AVM also writes these messages to
  the ERROR-STATUS system handle, but sets
  ERROR-STATUS:ERROR to FALSE.
 You can run an internal procedure that is declared in the
  current external procedure or in the procedure you specify with the IN
  proc-handle option. The procedure handle
  specified by the IN proc-handle option can
  specify either a valid persistent procedure instance or an external procedure
  that is active on the procedure call stack. The handle can also specify the
  current external procedure using the THIS-PROCEDURE system handle. You can check the validity of any
  procedure handle using the VALID-HANDLE
  function.
 A called external procedure uses any arguments passed to it
  from the calling procedure by referring to those arguments as numbers enclosed
  in braces { }. The first argument is {1}, the next is {2}, etc. Any arguments
  the called procedure does not use are ignored, and any missing arguments are
  treated as null values. (Note that the null is a legal value in a WHERE or WITH
  clause, but its occurrence can cause an error at other points in a called
  procedure.)
 To run an r-code file stored in a library that is not on
  PROPATH, you must specify the name of the library and the name of the r-code
  file in the library. Specify these names in the form path-name>, where path-name is the pathname of the library and member-name is the name of the r-code file. For
  example, if you have an r-code file called appmenu.r in a library whose pathname is /usr/foo/app.pl, you use this command to run it:

 When running an external procedure, it is good practice to
  specify the name of the source file in the RUN
  statement. For example, to run r-exit.p
  you specify the following:

  When you specify a suffix or file extension (such as.p), the AVM first tries replacing that suffix or extension with.r and
  searches the first directory on your PROPATH for a file with that name. If the r-code file is not
  found, then it reverts to the original suffix and searches for a source file
  with that name. If the source file is not found in the first PROPATH directory, then the AVM searches for
  an r-code file and then a source file in each subsequent directory on your
  PROPATH until a file is found.

  If you specify the.r suffix in the RUN statement, then the AVM searches only for
  an r-code file in each directory on your PROPATH. If you omit the extension, then the AVM first adds a.r to the name you specify and searches the first directory for an r-code
  file with that name. If none is found, then the AVM searches for a source
  file with no suffix or extension.
 You cannot run an internal procedure with the PERSISTENT, SINGLE-RUN, or SINGLETON
  options.
 If you run a persistent, single-run, or singleton procedure and
  a STOP, QUIT, or a RETURN ERROR occurs
  during execution of the procedure, the procedure is deleted.
 All shared variables, buffers, temp-tables, ProDataSet objects,
  work tables, and queries remain in scope as long as a persistent procedure
  instance remains that accesses them. This is true even if the procedure
  (persistent or non-persistent) that originally defined the shared data has gone
  out of scope. Shared data can go out of scope only when no persistent procedure
  remains that references it.
 You cannot run a persistent, single-run, or singleton procedure
  in which you have defined shared streams or shared frame, browse, or menu
  widgets. Doing so causes the AVM to raise ERROR on the RUN statement.
 You can remove an instance of a persistent or single-run
  procedure that you run using the PERSISTENT
  option using the DELETE PROCEDURE or DELETE OBJECT statement. When you delete the
  procedure instance, its context goes out of scope and all allocated resources
  are returned to the system. If the procedure has shared dependencies on the call
  stack, the delete pends until the dependencies are cleared.
 To run a Windows DLL routine as an internal procedure, you must
  reference the DLL in a PROCEDURE statement and
  define its parameters in the associated internal procedure block. For more
  information on accessing DLL routines from ABL, see OpenEdge Programming Interfaces.
 To run a UNIX shared library routine as an internal procedure,
  you must reference the UNIX shared library in a PROCEDURE statement and define its parameters in the associated
  internal procedure block. You can declare an internal procedure as a routine in
  a UNIX shared library in the same manner as declaring a DLL routine. The one
  exception is that the ORDINAL option is not applicable to UNIX and will be
  ignored. For example:

 You can define triggers on procedure handles (procedure
  triggers). You can apply events to any procedure trigger defined either within a
  persistent procedure or within any external procedure that is active on the
  procedure call stack. For example:

  This code fragment assumes that a trigger is defined
  within persproc.p for the RETURN event
  on the THIS-PROCEDURE handle.
 If you are using ABL with a DataServer that supports stored
  procedures, the RUN statement has
  extensions that allow you to execute a stored procedure. For more
  information, see the entry for the RUN
  STORED-PROCEDURE statement and the appropriate OpenEdge
  DataServer Guides (Use the Microsoft SQL Data
  Server and Use the Oracle Data
  Server).
 If you RUN a procedure
  multiple times within a session, changing the procedure between runs, you must
  manually recompile the procedure each time. Otherwise, the procedure's last
  r-code, which persists for a session, is what is run and the changes do not
  appear.
 An asynchronous call to a remote procedure (using the
  ASYNCHRONOUS option) causes the
  RUN statement to return control
  immediately to the following statement in the local context, whether or not
  the remote procedure has completed execution.
 If an asynchronous call to a remote procedure does not raise a
  STOP or ERROR condition, the AVM:
• Increments the server-handle:ASYNC-REQUEST-COUNT attribute
• Increments the proc-handle:ASYNC-REQUEST-COUNT attribute, if PERSISTENT is specified for a remote
    external procedure or IN
    proc-handle is specified for a remote
    internal procedure
• Sets the async-request-handle:COMPLETE attribute to FALSE,
    indicating that the request has not completed execution
• Sets the async-request-handle:EVENT-PROCEDURE attribute to the
    value of event-internal-procedure, if
    event-internal-procedure is
    specified
• Sets the async-request-handle:EVENT-PROCEDURE-CONTEXT attribute to
    the value of procedure-context, if
    procedure-context is
    specified
• Submits the request for execution by the application
    server
 An asynchronous call to a remote procedure can return a
  class-based error object. The object is returned via the ERROR-OBJECT attribute on the Asynchronous request
  object handle.
 The AVM checks the syntax of the ON
  SERVER option at run time. This allows you to use a single HANDLE
  variable that you can set either to a server handle value or the value of the
  current SESSION handle. Thus, you can use the
  same RUN statement to execute a procedure
  remotely in an application server or locally depending on application
  conditions.
• When you specify the ON
  SERVER option with the SESSION
  system handle, the RUN statement is
  functionally similar to not specifying the ON
  SERVER option at all. That is, the two RUN statements in the following code perform the same
  function:

  Allowing the same ON
  SERVER option to specify either a local session or a remote
  application server session facilitates code generation for applications like
  the OpenEdge AppBuilder.

  With the ASYNCHRONOUS
  option, using the ON SERVER SESSION
  option causes the called procedure to run synchronously in the local session, followed immediately by
  execution of any specified event-handler-name. Only after execution of the specified
  event-handler-name does control
  return to the statement following the RUN
  statement. This synchronous local execution includes the following
  differences in error handling from asynchronous execution on an application
  server using ON SERVER
  server-handle:
• If an unhandled ERROR condition occurs during execution of the called
    local procedure or method, the error message is displayed on the local
    output device. This is different from remote execution, where any error
    message is written to the application server log file.
• If the called local procedure or method causes an
    ERROR or STOP condition to be raised in the
    calling procedure (a file not found, mismatched parameters, a compile
    error, and explicit execution of a RETURN
    ERROR or STOP
    statement), the AVM sends the associated message to the standard output
    device and sets ERROR-STATUS:ERROR
    appropriately. This is different from remote execution, where the AVM in
    most cases attaches the associated message to the ERROR-STATUS system handle.
• Also, if the called local procedure or method causes
    an ERROR or STOP condition to be raised in the calling procedure (as
    in the previous note), the AVM raises the condition on the RUN statement, as for a local RUN statement without the ON SERVER option. This is different from
    remote execution, where the AVM does not raise the condition on the
    calling RUN statement. You can work
    around this for the ON SERVER SESSION
    case by coding each asynchronous RUN
    statement with the NO-ERROR option
    and possibly surrounding it with a DO ON STOP
    UNDO, LEAVE block.

See also

{ } Argument reference,
{ } Include file reference, APPLY statement, Asynchronous request object handle, CODEBASE-LOCATOR system handle, COMPILE statement,
CREATE SERVER statement, DEFINE PARAMETER statement, DELETE PROCEDURE statement,
DELETE OBJECT statement, ERROR-OBJECT attribute, ON statement, Parameter passing syntax, PROCEDURE statement, Procedure object handle, RUN STORED-PROCEDURE statement,
THIS-PROCEDURE system handle, VALID-HANDLE function,
Widget phrase




RUN STORED-PROCEDURE statement

Runs a non-ABL stored procedure or allows you to send SQL to an SQL-based data source using an OpenEdge DataServer.

Syntax

Note that not all options shown can be used simultaneously.

procedure-name: The name of the stored procedure that you want to run or the ABL
    built-in procedure name send-sql-statement.

    Use send-sql-statement to send an SQL
    statement to an SQL-based data source.

LOAD-RESULT-INTO handle: Loads the results using a handle
    which points to one or more temp-tables. Note that the handle can be defined as an
    EXTENT. This enables you to pass more than one
    temp-table handle in those instances where SQL statement(s), or named stored procedures,
    return more than one result set. You can pass an unprepared temp-table (that is, no
    defined schema) with LOAD-RESULT-INTO. In such cases,
    the temp-table structure is prepared dynamically. If the temp-table defined by the
    handle already has a prepared schema, the temp-table structure must match the structure
    of the result set to avoid data mismatch errors. See the "Data types" section in the
    "Initial Programming Considerations" of your respective DataServer Guide
    for data mapping requirements. If multiple result sets are returned, each result set
    needs its own temp-table mapping. The elements of a temp-table extent should be arranged
    in the same order that the procedure returns its sets of results.

    LOAD-RESULT-INTO carries an implicit CLOSE STORED-PROCEDURE statement.

    If handle does not point to a temp-table, a
    run-time error occurs.

status = PROC-STATUS: Assigns an integer value to status containing the return status from the stored procedure. The status
    is typically a code indicating whether the procedure succeeded or failed and why.

identifier = PROC-HANDLE: Assigns a value to identifier, of
    the appropriate data type (usually INTEGER), that uniquely identifies the stored
    procedure returning results from the non-OpenEdge database or that uniquely identifies
    the SQL cursor used to retrieve results from an SQL-based data source, such as a
    DataServer for Microsoft SQL Server.

NO-ERROR: The NO-ERROR option is used to prevent the statement from raising ERROR and displaying error messages.

    Note: This option must appear before any run-time parameter list.

parameter: A run-time parameter to be passed to the stored procedure. A parameter has the following syntax:

    INPUT is the default. OUTPUT and INPUT-OUTPUT parameters must be
    record fields or program variables. For ORACLE, OUTPUT and INPUT-OUTPUT work the same
    way.

    parameter-name is the name of a
    keyword parameter defined by the stored procedure. If not specified you must supply
    all the parameters in the correct order and you must precede your assignment statement
    with the PARAM keyword. If you do not supply a required parameter,
    and no default is specified in the stored procedure, a run-time error occurs.

    expression is a constant, field
    name, variable name, or expression. If you use send-sql-statement for an SQL-based data source, you must pass only one
    character expression containing the SQL statement you want the data source to
    execute.

Examples

This procedure runs the ORACLE stored procedure pcust and
writes the results of the stored procedure into the ABL-supplied buffer,
proc-text-buffer. The same code works for accessing a stored procedure
from a DataServer for Microsoft SQL Server data source.

This procedure uses the send-sql-statement option to send SQL to ORACLE. It writes the results of the
stored procedure into the ABL-supplied buffer, proc-text-buffer. The same
code works for sending SQL to a DataServer for Microsoft SQL Server data source:

This example shows how to trap errors from the non-OpenEdge RDBMS within a
procedure:

This example shows how to use the send-sql-statement with the LOAD-RESULT-INTO
option. Note that the temp-table created for tthndl is
unprepared. When tthndl is given to LOAD-RESULT-INTO and the temp-table is unprepared, LOAD-RESULT-INTO prepares the temp-table when results are
returned. Note also that you do not have to specify a CLOSE
STORED-PROCEDURE statement, since it's done implicitly with LOAD-RESULT-INTO.

Notes

 The RUN STORED-PROCEDURE statement starts a
  transaction with the same scope as transactions started with the UPDATE
  statement.
 For more information on using this statement and on using the built-in
  procedure names, send-sql-statement, see the OpenEdge
  DataServer Guides (Use the Microsoft SQL Data Server and
  Use the Oracle Data Server).

See also

CLOSE STORED-PROCEDURE statement, NO-ERROR option,
PROC-HANDLE function, PROC-STATUS function




RUN SUPER statement

Runs the super procedure version of the current internal procedure.

The RUN SUPER statement must appear only within an internal
procedure, but can appear anywhere within the internal procedure. If the RUN
SUPER statement appears outside an internal procedure, the compiler reports an
error.

Syntax

parameter: A parameter of the super procedure. The parameters of the super
    procedure must have the same signature (number of parameters, and
    type and mode of each) as the parameters of the current internal procedure.
    You can, however, adjust a parameter's value.

    For the parameter syntax,
    see the Parameter passing syntax reference entry.

NO-ERROR: The NO-ERROR option is used to
    prevent the statement from raising ERROR and
    displaying error messages.

Example

The
following example consists of three procedure files: a main routine,
a driver, and a third procedure file that becomes a super procedure
of the driver.

The following main routine, procedure file r-pomain.p, runs
the driver procedure persistently:

r-pomain.p

The following driver, procedure file r-podrvr.p,
runs the third procedure file persistently, makes it a super procedure
of itself, defines the internal procedure sample1, and defines the
user-defined functions sample2, GetPartName, and SetPartName:

r-podrvr.p

The following third procedure file, r-posupr.p,
defines a new version of the internal procedure sample1 and a new
version of the user-defined function sample2:

r-posupr.p

To start the example, run r-pomain.p from
the Procedure Editor.

Notes

 To run the super version of a user-defined function, use the SUPER function.
 For the rules that ABL uses to find the super procedure, see the
  reference entry for the ADD-SUPER-PROCEDURE() method.

See also

ADD-SUPER-PROCEDURE() method, NO-ERROR option, REMOVE-SUPER-PROCEDURE() method, SOURCE-PROCEDURE system handle, SUPER function, SUPER-PROCEDURES attribute, TARGET-PROCEDURE system handle




STOP-AFTER phrase

The STOP-AFTER phrase specifies a time-out value for
a DO, FOR, or REPEAT block.

Syntax

time-limit: An integer expression which specifies the number of seconds each
    iteration of a block has until a time-out occurs.

If a time-out occurs, the AVM raises the STOP condition on the current statement and throws a Progress.Lang.StopAfter object. Use an ON STOP
phrase on the block (or an enclosing block) to alter the default STOP condition handling. Alternatively you can catch a Progress.Lang.StopAfter object using a CATCH
block to provide alternate STOP condition handling. For
more information, see the Progress.Lang.StopAfter class.

The STOP-AFTER time limit is the maximum
time allowed for a single block iteration. For example, if you have STOP-AFTER 3 on a FOR EACH statement, each
loop iteration must complete within 3 seconds or a STOP
condition is raised.

If a block with a STOP-AFTER phrase
contains a nested block with a STOP-AFTER phrase, then
each is governed by it's own time limit. If the outer block time limit is reached while the
inner block is executing, the STOP condition is raised
even if the time limit for the inner block has not been reached.

If the STOP condition is handled and
execution resumes within the scope of a block with a STOP-AFTER phrase, the time limit is not in effect until the next iteration of
the block

If time-limit evaluates to zero or
less, this is the equivalent of not specifying a STOP-AFTER phrase.

Examples

Example 1

The following example shows how the STOP-AFTER phrase can be used for placing a time limit on a query.

Example 2

The following example demonstrates how a STOP-AFTER
phrase on an outer block also limits the time allowed for an inner block.

If you run this code, the outer DO block
establishes a 5 second time limit for the work of the DO
block and all inner blocks.

When the inner FOR EACH block starts, a
separate time limit is set for each iteration of this block due to the STOP-AFTER 10 phrase.

Execution then continues to the REPEAT
block which is an infinite loop. At some point, the outer 5 second time limit of the
DO block is reached and the AVM raises the STOP condition. The STOP
condition is raised on the statement the AVM is executing when the time limit is reached.
Normal STOP handling proceeds from that point.

Because a CATCH statement on a block takes precedence over an ON
STOP phrase, the STOP condition is caught and the "Time
limit reached..." message displays. Notice that 5 seconds elapse from the "Start
of DO BLOCK..." message to the "Time limit reached..." message.

Normal execution resumes following the DO block, and the
"Procedure complete." message displays.

Notes

 STOP-AFTER phrases are not intended to interact with
  user interfaces.
 Blocking calls to third party software components, where the AVM has
  transferred execution control, cannot be timed out. This category includes operating
  system calls, MS Windows system calls, and calls to any third party DLLs and Unix shared
  objects.

See also

CATCH statement, DO statement, FOR statement, ON STOP phrase, Progress.Lang.StopAfter class, REPEAT statement




STOP statement

Signals the STOP condition and throws an associated Progress.Lang.Stop object in the current block. By default, the STOP condition
stops processing a procedure, backs out the active transaction, and unwinds the call stack
until it returns to the startup procedure or the Procedure Editor. You can change this
behavior by including the ON STOP phrase on a block statement or by catching the associated
Stop object using a CATCH block.

Syntax

Example

In any procedure, the outermost block that updates the database is the system transaction. In this procedure, the first iteration of the FOR EACH block starts a system transaction. The transaction ends when that iteration ends. Another transaction starts at the start of the next iteration. After you update the credit-limit field, the AVM prompts you to STOP. If you enter yes, the STOP statement stops the procedure and undoes any database modifications made in that transaction, as shown:

r-stop.p

When you add the ON STOP phrase to the block
statement of the previous procedure, it changes the default behavior
of the STOP statement. In this procedure, the AVM allows you to
re-enter the record when you choose to stop:

r-stop2.p

Notes

 Unless you coded an ON STOP phrase or CATCH block to trap the STOP
  condition, the STOP statement continues to back out of all blocks on the call stack.
 Almost all STOP conditions are trappable with the ON STOP phrase or a
  stop CATCH block. In some cases, the AVM might ignore STOP conditions at certain levels of
  the call stack. For example, if the AVM executes a procedure that relies on a lost
  database connection, the AVM raises the STOP condition and unwinds the call stack until it
  gets to a level above all references to the lost database. If the
  AVM encounters the ON STOP phrase or a compatible stop CATCH block before this point, the
  AVM ignores the phrase or CATCH block. If the AVM encounters the ON STOP phrase or a
  compatible stop CATCH block after this point, the AVM executes the directive specified in
  the phrase or the CATCH block, with the CATCH block taking precedence if the ON STOP
  phrase is on the same associated block.
 If you use the Startup Procedure (-p) parameter to
  start the ABL session, and if the startup procedure is still active,
  the default STOP action restarts the procedure.
 A terminal user can initiate the STOP condition by pressing STOP. This is usually mapped to CTRL+BREAK (Windows) or CTRL+C (UNIX). The actual mapping
  depends on your terminal and system configuration.

See also

Progress.Lang.Stop class




SUBSCRIBE statement

Creates a subscription to an ABL named event.

Note: ABL named events are completely different from the key function, mouse, widget, and direct manipulation events described in the Handle-based Object Events Reference. They are also different from the class events described in the Class Events Reference.

Syntax

PROCEDURE subscriber-handle: A procedure or handle representing the subscriber.

    The PROCEDURE option lets one procedure create a
    subscription on behalf of another. For example, if you want procedure A to create a
    subscription on behalf of procedure B, set subscriber-handle to the procedure handle of B.

    If the PROCEDURE option does not appear, the AVM
    creates a subscription on behalf of THIS-PROCEDURE, the procedure
    that contains the SUBSCRIBE statement.

TO event-name: A quoted string or a character expression representing the
    name of the event.

IN publisher-handle: Subscribes to the named events published by publisher-handle.

    If publisher-handle is not a valid
    procedure or widget handle at the time the SUBSCRIBE statement
    executes, the AVM reports a run-time error unless you specify the
    NO-ERROR option.

ANYWHERE: Subscribes to named events published within the ABL session, regardless
    of the publisher.

RUN-PROCEDURE local-internal-procedure: A quoted string or character expression representing the
    name of an internal procedure that resides within the subscribing
    program. The AVM runs local-internal-procedure when
    the named event occurs.

    If the RUN-PROCEDURE option does not appear, when
    the named event occurs, the AVM runs an internal procedure with the same name as the
    named event.

    Note: The RUN-PROCEDURE option lets you
    create a subscription when the event name and the procedure name do not match, or when
    you must subscribe to two different events that have the same name.

    When the named event occurs, the AVM RUNs each
    subscriber's local internal procedure, passing the parameters, if any, The order in
    which the AVM notifies subscribers is undefined. The AVM always performs this
    RUN with an implicit NO-ERROR, and logs errors to
    the ERROR-STATUS system handle.

NO-ERROR: The NO-ERROR option is used to
    prevent the statement from raising ERROR and
    displaying error messages.

Example

For
an example, see the reference entry for the PUBLISH statement.

Notes

 Within the local internal procedure, you can get a handle to the
  publisher of the named event by using the SOURCE-PROCEDURE system handle.
  For more information on the SOURCE-PROCEDURE system handle, see the reference
  entry.
 If the AVM detects a redundant SUBSCRIBE
  statement—that is, a SUBSCRIBE statement with the same event name, and
  either the same publisher handle or the same ANYWHERE option—the AVM does
  not report an error.
• If event-name is a string containing spaces
  or is otherwise not a standard ABL name, use one of the following
  techniques:
• Use the RUN-PROCEDURE option to assign the local internal
    procedure a more conventional name.
• When you define local-internal-procedure, put its name in quotes, as in the
    following example:

See also

NO-ERROR option,
PUBLISH statement, PUBLISHED-EVENTS attribute, Subscribe() event method, UNSUBSCRIBE statement




SUPER function

Runs the super procedure version of the current user-defined
function.

This language element must appear within a user-defined
function, but can appear anywhere within the user-defined function.
If this language element does not appear within a user-defined function,
the compiler reports an error.

Syntax

parameter: A parameter of the super version of the current user-defined function.
    These parameters must have the same signature (number of parameters,
    and type and mode of each) as the parameters of the current user-defined
    function. You can, however, adjust a parameter's value.

    For
    the parameter syntax, see the Parameter definition syntax reference entry.

    If a user-defined function
    cannot be located in any super procedure, the AVM generates the
    following error message:

    Errors are stored in the ERROR-STATUS handle
    when NO-ERROR is specified.

Example

For
an example of the SUPER function, see the RUN SUPER statement reference
entry.

Notes

 To
  run the super version of an internal procedure, use the RUN SUPER
  statement.
 For the rules that ABL uses to find the super version of the
  current user-defined function, see the ADD-SUPER-PROCEDURE() method reference entry.

See also

ADD-SUPER-PROCEDURE() method, REMOVE-SUPER-PROCEDURE() method, RUN SUPER statement, SOURCE-PROCEDURE system handle, SUPER-PROCEDURES attribute, TARGET-PROCEDURE system handle




SUPER statement

Invokes a constructor for the immediate super class as the first statement in a constructor of the defining class.

Syntax

([ parameter [, parameter ]... ]): Specifies zero or more parameters passed to a PACKAGE-PRIVATE, PROTECTED, PACKAGE-PROTECTED, or PUBLIC constructor that is defined for the super class. You must provide the parameters identified by the specified constructor, matched with respect to number, data type, and mode. To invoke a constructor that is overloaded in the class, you must specify sufficient information for each parameter to disambiguate it from all other constructors in the class. Otherwise, ABL raises an error identifying the ambiguity.

    For information
    on the parameter passing syntax and disambiguating overloaded constructors,
    see the Parameter passing syntax reference entry.

Notes
• You must make sure that at least one constructor is called in each level
  of the class hierarchy. If there is no constructor defined in the immediate super class or
  there is a constructor defined that does not take parameters, you do not need to
  explicitly invoke it, although you can. By default, ABL will call it. However if you want
  to invoke a super class constructor with parameters, you must explicitly invoke it. This
  is normally done using SUPER as the first executable statement of the constructor.
  Alternatively you can call another local constructor using the THIS-OBJECT statement and
  then use SUPER from there.

See also

CONSTRUCTOR statement, Parameter passing syntax, THIS-OBJECT statement, SUPER system reference




SUPER system reference

A system reference that lets a subclass call the PUBLIC, PACKAGE-PROTECTED, PROTECTED, and PACKAGE-PRIVATE instance methods of its super class in the inherited class hierarchy. If the specified method definition is not found in the subclass's immediate super class, ABL repeatedly looks to the next super class in the inherited class hierarchy until it finds the definition.

Syntax

method-name: Specifies the name of an instance method defined in a super class.
    The method definition cannot be abstract or ABL raises a compiler error.

([ parameter [, parameter ]... ]): Specifies zero or more parameters passed to a PACKAGE-PRIVATE, PROTECTED, PACKAGE-PROTECTED, or PUBLIC method that is defined for the super class. You must provide the parameters identified by the specified method, matched with respect to number, data type, and mode. To invoke a method that is overloaded in the class, you must specify sufficient information for each parameter in order to disambiguate it from all the other methods that it overloads. Otherwise, ABL raises an error identifying the ambiguity.

    For
    information on the parameter passing syntax and disambiguating overloaded
    methods, see the Parameter passing syntax reference entry.

NO-ERROR: The NO-ERROR option is used to
    prevent the statement from raising ERROR and
    displaying error messages.

Notes

 You typically use the SUPER system
  reference within a method of a class defined somewhere in the hierarchy to invoke a method
  defined in a super class that was overridden in a subclass. For more information about
  using the SUPER system reference, see Develop Object-oriented ABL Applications.
 You cannot use the SUPER system
  reference to call a static method.

See also

Class-based method call, NO-ERROR option, Parameter passing syntax, SUPER statement




Trigger phrase

Defines triggers on one or more user-interface
events for a single user-interface component. Use the Trigger phrase
within the statement that defines or creates the associated user-interface
component.

Note: Does not apply to SpeedScript
programming.

Syntax

event-list: The event or events with which the trigger block is associated. To
    specify more than one event, separate them with commas as follows:

    The events you can specify depend on the type
    of the associated widget. See the reference entry for the appropriate
    widget. For more information on each user interface event that ABL
    supports, see the Handle-based Object Events Reference.

ANYWHERE: Specifies that the trigger is a group trigger. This means
    that it applies not only to the widget being defined or created,
    but also is a default to any widget contained within that widget.
    This allows you to create a default trigger for all widgets in a
    frame or window. You can override the group trigger by defining
    a trigger on the same event specifically for the widget (or by defining
    a group trigger on an intervening widget).

trigger-block: A sequence of ABL statements to be executed when any of the specified
    events occur. The trigger block must be a single ABL statement or
    a DO block.

PERSISTENT RUN procedure [ IN handle ] [ (input-parameters) ]: Specifies a persistent trigger; that is, a trigger that remains
    in effect after the current procedure terminates. A persistent trigger
    must be a procedure specified by procedure. The
    trigger procedure can take one or more input parameters; it cannot
    have any output parameters. The parameters are evaluated when
    the trigger is defined. They are not re-evaluated each
    time the trigger executes.

    If you specify the IN handle option,
    procedure must be the name of an internal procedure
    defined in the external procedure specified by handle,
    where handle is an expression that evaluates
    to a valid procedure handle. The external procedure must be in scope
    when you run procedure.

Example

This
procedure defines triggers for two buttons:

r-trigp.p

Notes

 If
  you specify the Trigger phrase in the definition of a user-interface
  component, the Trigger phrase must be the last option in the component
  definition.
 If you specify a trigger when you define a widget then that
  trigger applies to every instance of that widget. For example, in r-trigp.p,
  if you enable the nextcust button in more than one frame, each of
  those buttons inherits the nextcust trigger.
 The input parameters for a persistent trigger are evaluated
  when the trigger is attached. (For the Trigger phrase, the trigger
  is attached when the widget is realized.) This means, for example,
  that you cannot pass the SELF handle as an input parameter.
 The external procedure specified by handle is in
  scope if it is the current procedure, a procedure on the call stack,
  or a persistent procedure.

See also

CREATE widget statement, DEFINE MENU statement, ON statement




TRIGGER PROCEDURE statement

Defines a schema trigger.

Syntax

event: The event for which the schema trigger is being defined. The valid
    events are CREATE, DELETE, FIND,
    WRITE, and ASSIGN.

object: The object on which the event is defined. If the event is
    CREATE, DELETE, FIND, or
    WRITE, the object must be a reference to a database table. If the
    event is ASSIGN, the object must be a reference to a database field
    qualified by a table name.

options: Optional parts of the trigger header.

    Headers for CREATE, DELETE, and
    FIND triggers take no options. Their syntaxes are as follows:

    In the header for a WRITE trigger you can optionally
    include one or two buffer names.

    For an ASSIGN trigger procedure,
    there are two ways you can specify the field/value for validation. The first way is to
    use the OF phrase and the second way is to use the
    NEW [VALUE] phrase. If you use the
    OF phrase, the value from the ASSIGN has been put
    into the buffer, so you can check it from there. However, the change has not been
    committed yet, so if this trigger returns error, the new value will be backed out. If
    you use the NEW VALUE phrase, then the new value is available for
    validation via the value1 variable. Each way accomplishes the same
    task; it's a matter of coding preference.

Examples

The following is a WRITE trigger for the Customer table.
It uses the OLD BUFFER option so that it can determine whether the CustNum value has changed. If the Customer's outstanding balance
exceeds its Credit Limit, the trigger returns the error condition (in which case the record
is not updated).

r-wrcust.p

The following is an example of an ASSIGN
trigger using the OF phrase.

The following is an example of an ASSIGN
trigger using the NEW [VALUE] phrase.

Notes

 Use the Data Dictionary
  to associate a trigger procedure with a table or field in the database.
 Some 3GL applications execute schema triggers. Triggers might
  also be executed in batch mode. Therefore, you should avoid any
  user-interface interactions within schema trigger procedures.
 For a TRIGGER PROCEDURE FOR WRITE,
  the OLD BUFFER does not contain a before image for CLOB
  or BLOB columns.
 For WRITE and REPLICATION-WRITE triggers, do not try
  to access any lob fields in the OLD BUFFER buffer. If the value of the
  field was changed, the old buffer would not contain the old value of the lob field. This
  is because the actual data for the lob field does not reside in the record itself, and the
  lob field in the old buffer would possibly be pointing at random data or have the wrong
  data size.

See also

PROCEDURE statement




UNDO statement

Backs out all modifications to fields and variables made during the current iteration of a block, and indicates what action to take next.

Syntax

label1: The name of the block whose processing you want to undo. If you do
    not name a block with label1, the AVM undoes the
    processing of the closest transaction or subtransaction block. In determining the
    closest transaction or subtransaction block, the AVM disregards DO ON ENDKEY blocks that do not have the ON ERROR or TRANSACTION
    option.

LEAVE label2: Indicates that after undoing the processing of a block, the AVM
    leaves the block you name with label2. If you do
    not name a block, the AVM leaves the block that was undone. After leaving a block, the
    AVM continues on with any remaining processing in a routine.

NEXT label2: Indicates that after undoing the processing of a block, the
    AVM does the next iteration of the block you name with label2. If
    you do not name a block, the AVM does the next iteration of the
    block that was undone.

RETRY label1: Indicates that after undoing the processing of a block, the AVM
    repeats the same iteration of the block you name with label1.

    Because RETRY in a block without
    user input results in an infinite loop, the AVM automatically checks for this
    possibility and converts a RETRY block into a
    LEAVE block, or a NEXT block if it is an iterating block. This behavior is often referred to
    as infinite loop protection.

RETURN...: Returns to the calling routine, if there is one. The following table
    describes various RETURN options:

    Note: Using RETURN ERROR in a
    user-defined function sets the target variable of the function to the Unknown value
    (?) instead of raising ERROR in the caller. See ABL Error Handling
    for more detail.

THROW error-or-stop-object-expression: The THROW directive stops the execution of the
    current block of code, or the current iteration of an iterating block, and raises the
    ERROR or STOP condition specified in error-or-stop-object-expression. The value of error-or-stop-object-expression must be an error or stop
    object type.

    UNDO, THROW has the following restrictions:

     UNDO, THROW is not allowed in a
      CATCH block associated with the main block of an
      object destructor method. You cannot raise or return an ERROR or STOP condition from a
      destructor. To do so results in a compile-time error. You can use UNDO, THROW within the code of the destructor itself. In
      this case, the statement raises the condition in the destructor block and is caught
      by the ON ERROR or ON
      STOP directive of the destructor block (which can only be UNDO, LEAVE).
     The UNDO, THROW statement can itself raise an
      ERROR condition, or THROW a Progress.Lang.SysError object if it fails. For example,
      this would happen if the object reference used is not initialized. In this case, the
      SysError is trapped by the same block that would
      have trapped the successfully thrown error or stop object.

Example

This example shows how the UNDO, THROW statement
specifies and populates an error object, and how the CATCH block handles
it:

r-undothrow1.p

Notes

 You can also specify UNDO processing
  for a block by using the ON ERROR, ON STOP, and ON ENDKEY
  phrases with a block statement.
 Class-based error or stop objects can be thrown from an OpenEdge
  application server and handled by a CATCH block on an
  ABL client. To be throwable from an OpenEdge application server to an ABL client, any
  user-defined error classes must be defined as SERIALIZABLE on both the server and client sides. In addition, note that any
  STOP condition messages are written to the server log
  file, even if a stop object with the messages is caught on the client. For the full list
  of restrictions on class-based objects that are passed between server and client, see the
  Parameter passing syntax entry.
 If you do not supply an action (LEAVE, NEXT,
  RETRY, RETURN, or THROW) with the
  UNDO statement, the AVM applies the default undo action for the type of
  block being undone. The default action is determined by the block context and may result
  in retrying the block or leaving or advancing an iteration of the block. Because the
  default action is implicit and context-dependent, Progress Software recommends that you
  always specify an action with the UNDO statement for clarity and
  consistency.
 For more information on the UNDO
  statement, see Develop ABL Applications. For more
  information on error and stop handling in general, see ABL Error
  Handling.

See also

ON ENDKEY phrase, ON ERROR phrase, RETRY function, RETURN statement, ROUTINE-LEVEL ON ERROR UNDO, THROW statement




UNSUBSCRIBE statement

Cancels a subscription to an ABL named event.
Specifically, the UNSUBSCRIBE statement cancels one or more subscriptions
to one or more named events.

Note: ABL named events
are completely different from the key function, mouse, widget, and
direct manipulation events, which are described in the Handle-based Object Events Reference. They are also different from the class
events described in the Class Events Reference.

Syntax

PROCEDURE subscriber-handle: A procedure handle representing the subscriber to a named event.

    The
    PROCEDURE option lets one procedure cancel a subscription on behalf
    of another. For example, if you want procedure A to cancel a subscription
    on behalf of procedure B, set subscriber-handle to
    the procedure handle of B.

    If the PROCEDURE option does not
    appear, the AVM assumes that the subscriber is THIS-PROCEDURE, the
    procedure that contains the UNSUBSCRIBE statement.

event-name: A quoted string or character expression representing the
    name of a named event.

ALL: Cancels all subscriptions.

IN publisher-handle: A procedure handle representing the publisher of a named event.

    If
    the IN option appears, the AVM cancels subscriptions to named events
    published by publisher-handle-specifically, either
    all subscriptions (if the ALL option appears), or only subscriptions to event-name (if event-name appears).

    If
    the IN option does not appear, the AVM cancels subscriptions regardless
    of the publisher-specifically, either all subscriptions (if the
    ALL option appears), or only subscriptions to event-name (if event-name appears).

Example

For
an example, see the reference entry for the PUBLISH statement.

Notes

 When
  the AVM executes an UNSUBSCRIBE statement, it cancels a subscription
  when it finds a match. A match means that the SUBSCRIBE and UNSUBSCRIBE
  event names match, and that one of the following is true:
• The
    subscription was created using SUBSCRIBE IN, cancelled using UNSUBSCRIBE
    IN, and the publisher and subscriber handles in the SUBSCRIBE and
    UNSUBSCRIBE statements match.
• The subscription was created using SUBSCRIBE ANYWHERE, and cancelled
    using UNSUBSCRIBE without the IN option.
 The AVM executes the UNSUBSCRIBE statement with an implicit NO-ERROR
  option. That is, if the AVM cannot find a match, it does not report
  an error. To find out what errors, if any, occurred, use the ERROR-STATUS
  system handle.
• If you create a subscription using SUBSCRIBE ANYWHERE, you cannot
  cancel the subscription using UNSUBSCRIBE IN.

See also

PUBLISH statement, PUBLISHED-EVENTS attribute, SUBSCRIBE statement, Unsubscribe() event method




VALIDATE statement

Verifies that a record complies with mandatory field and unique index definitions.

Syntax

record: The name of the record you want to validate.

    To validate a record in a table defined for multiple databases, you
    must qualify the record's table name with the database name. See the record definition in the Record phrase reference entry for
    more information.

NO-ERROR: The NO-ERROR option is used to
    prevent the statement from raising ERROR and
    displaying error messages.

Example

This procedure prompts for an item number. If an Item with that number is
not available, the procedure creates a new Item record and lets you supply some Item
information. The VALIDATE statement checks the data you enter against the
index and mandatory field criteria for the Item record.

r-valid.p

Notes

 Because validation is done automatically, you rarely have to use the
  VALIDATE statement. The AVM automatically validates a record when a
  record in the record buffer is replaced by another, a record's scope iterates or ends, the
  innermost iterating subtransaction block that creates a record iterates, or a transaction
  ends.

 The AVM automatically validates mandatory fields when those fields
  are modified.
 If the validation fails on a newly-created record,
  VALIDATE raises the ERROR condition.
 The AVM performs validation when it leaves a field.
 For complex validations, it might be easier to use the
  IF...THEN...ELSE statement instead of the VALIDATE
  statement.
 You cannot use the VALIDATE statement to test fields
  that are referenced in SQL statements, since validation is not performed for these
  fields.
• If a field or table has been modified, the VALIDATE
  statement causes WRITE events and all related WRITE
  triggers to execute.

See also

IF...THEN...ELSE statement, NO-ERROR option




WAIT-FOR statement (.NET and ABL)

(Windows only; GUI for.NET)

This WAIT-FOR statement instructs the AVM to stop executing the current
block and remain in a wait state (blocking) until a.NET method that it calls returns. The
AVM continues to respond to all incoming ABL events (see the WAIT-FOR statement (ABL only) reference entry) as well as.NET events, and it executes any associated triggers, event procedures, or.NET event
handlers while in this wait state.

Note: ABL supports a separate version of the WAIT-FOR statement
(ABL WAIT-FOR) that blocks only for ABL events. For more
information, see the WAIT-FOR statement (ABL only) reference entry.

Syntax

object-reference: A reference to an object that generally inherits from the.NET class
    System.Windows.Forms.Form or System.Windows.Forms.CommonDialog. OpenEdge provides a
    particular subclass of System.Windows.Forms.Form—the
    Progress.Windows.Form class—which you can use
    to create.NET forms in an ABL session that co-exist more naturally with ABL
    windows.

type-name: The type name of a.NET class that provides a static blocking method,
    most commonly System.Windows.Forms.Application. With
    an appropriate USING statement, you can also specify the type by its unqualified class
    name (Application).

method-name: The name of a.NET input-blocking method that the WAIT-FOR statement
    calls, which is typically Run (a static method on
    System.Windows.Forms.Application), or by.NET
    convention, ShowDialog (an instance method on System.Windows.Forms.Form or System.Windows.Forms.CommonDialog).

parameters: Parameters for the method specified by method-name.

SET return-value: Provides the return value from the method, method-name(), which is set when the WAIT-FOR statement completes
    execution. The return-value can be a variable,
    property, or field that has the same data type as the method-name() return value, typically System.Windows.Forms.DialogResult.

    To use this option, method-name() must be a non-VOID
    method. If you specify this option for a VOID method, such as System.Windows.Forms.Application:Run(), ABL raises a compile-time
    error.

    For more information on.NET input-blocking methods that you can call
    in the WAIT-FOR statement, see the notes of this reference entry.

Example

The ABL-derived.NET class, r-WaitForms,
inherits the Progress.Windows.Form class to implement
a non-modal.NET form. When you try to close the displayed form, a dialog box appears that
prompts if you want the form to complete closing or not. If you choose to complete closing,
the form closes. If you choose to cancel the closing, the form remains displayed, and you
can try to close the form, again.

When you instantiate r-WaitForms, it
initializes and subscribes a handler (the FormClosing()
method) to the FormClosing event of the form. You can then
display the form by calling the DoWait() method on the
r-WaitForms instance. This method executes the WAIT-FOR
statement, which calls the.NET input-blocking method System.Windows.Forms.Application:Run(). (For more information on this method,
see the notes.) When you try to close the displayed form, this causes the non-modal form to
publish its FormClosing event, which executes the FormClosing() method to handle the event.

r-WaitForms.cls

The FormClosing() method passes INPUT
parameters from.NET for the FormClosing event. One of
these parameters (e) is a System.Windows.Forms.FormClosingEventArgs object, which contains a Cancel
property whose setting allows the event handler to either complete the FormClosing event or interrupt and cancel the FormClosing event. To determine how to set this property, the
event handler instantiates, initializes, and displays another Progress.Windows.Form class (rDialog)
as a modal dialog box.

The dialog box contains two buttons, rOKButton and rCancelButton, whose DialogResult properties are set to the System.Windows.Forms.DialogResult enumeration values OK and Cancel,
respectively. The event handler displays rDialog as a
modal form by executing the WAIT-FOR statement, which calls the modal input-blocking method
System.Windows.Forms.Form:ShowDialog(). (For more
information on this method, see the notes.)

When you click one of the two dialog buttons, this causes the dialog box
to close and the ShowDialog() method to return. This
automatically sets the DialogResult property on rDialog to the value of the DialogResult property on the button that you have clicked and also returns the
same property value as the value of ShowDialog(), which
the WAIT-FOR statement assigns to the variable, enDialogResult. The event handler then uses the static AreEqual() method on the Progress.Util.EnumHelper class to test the value of
enDialogResult and set the e:Cancel property to either complete the FormClosing event or cancel the FormClosing
event and leave the non-modal form open for further input.

Note: The calls to System.Windows.Forms.MessageBox:Show() display a message box similar to the ABL
MESSAGE statement with the VIEW-AS ALERT-BOX option.

To instantiate r-WaitForms and display
the non-modal form, you can thus run a procedure with code like this:

Notes

 A non-GUI ABL session cannot visualize.NET form and control objects
  and cannot block for GUI or non-GUI.NET events. So, you cannot invoke this WAIT-FOR
  statement (calling a.NET input-blocking method) within a non-GUI, Windows ABL session,
  including a:
• Character mode (CHUI) client
• Batch-mode client
• Application server session
 If you use any.NET forms in an ABL session, you can execute only one.NET WAIT-FOR statement that processes events for all.NET
  non-modal forms and their controls. This statement must be the first WAIT-FOR statement
  for processing non-modal events in your application. Following this statement, from event
  handlers and trigger blocks, you can execute multiple input-blocking statements to process
  any modal.NET form or ABL dialog box. ABL events for non-modal windows and their child
  widgets, or for non-GUI ABL features, such as asynchronous remote procedure calls and
  socket operations, all work in the context of this single non-modal.NET WAIT-FOR
  statement.

  CAUTION: Using stacked input-blocking statements
  other than for dialog boxes is not recommended. If you do so, you must take special care
  to ensure that any WAIT-FOR statements that you simultaneously execute to process
  non-modal events complete their execution in reverse order of invocation. Otherwise,
  your application will have unpredictable behavior. Also, in certain contexts (such as
  within a user-defined function or non-VOID method), if you execute an additional
  input-blocking or event-processing statement while displaying an ABL non-modal window together with.NET non-modal forms, the AVM raises the STOP
  condition.
 To block on any number of non-modal.NET forms (and ABL windows), you
  must use a WAIT-FOR statement that executes the System.Windows.Forms.Application:Run() input-blocking method (as shown for
  the example class, r-WaitForms):

  You can specify form-object-ref as an object reference to a single.NET non-modal form
  object, on which the WAIT-FOR statement blocks, displays, and waits to close. If you
  specify form-object-ref, the statement also displays
  any additional non-modal forms that you have previously initialized by setting their
  Visible properties to TRUE or by invoking their Show() methods. However,.NET automatically displays form-object-ref, itself, without having to set its Visible
  property or run its Show() method. You can also use
  triggers, event procedures, and.NET event handlers to create and display additional
  non-modal.NET forms (or ABL windows) after the WAIT-FOR statement blocks for
  events.

  The conditions for unblocking this WAIT-FOR statement
  differ, depending on whether you specify form-object-ref. However, whatever conditions unblock the WAIT-FOR
  statement also automatically close any open.NET forms. This is different from ABL
  windows, which you must explicitly open and close using ABL statements or widget
  attributes without regard to the execution of a WAIT-FOR statement.

  With form-object-ref, the WAIT-FOR
  statement unblocks and continues execution with the following statement if one of the
  following actions occurs:
• Your application explicitly calls the form-object-ref:Close() method, which
    automatically calls the Dispose() method to garbage
    collect the form.
• The user clicks the form Close (X) button in the upper right corner of the form-object-ref form, and you do not cancel the action in a handler for
    the FormClosing event, as in the example. This
    action also automatically calls the form-object-ref:Close() method.
• Your application calls the System.Windows.Forms.Application:Exit() method.

  When you use any of these techniques to unblock the WAIT-FOR
  statement, all currently displayed non-modal forms close, in addition to the form
  specified by form-object-ref, and including any
  non-modal.NET forms that were created and displayed after the WAIT-FOR statement
  blocked.

  CAUTION:

  If you are executing the READKEY statement within a trigger or
  event handler while blocking on a form-object-ref,
  and the user clicks the form Close (X) button,
  the ABL application shuts down unconditionally. For example, the following READKEY
  loop can cause this shutdown to occur:

  CODEBLOCK0

  This shutdown occurs because.NET generates a WM\QUIT message in
  response to clicking the Close (X) button that
  READKEY interprets (by design) as a message to shut down the application.

  CAUTION: You might have a problem displaying message
  boxes after invoking Application:Exit() or Application:ExitThread(). One way this can happen: if you
  use any two of the techniques for unblocking the WAIT-FOR, such as by calling Close(), then calling Application:Exit(), any subsequent executions of the MESSAGE statement with
  the VIEW-AS ALERT-BOX option or any subsequent calls to System.Windows.Forms.MessageBox:Show() might not display the specified
  message box and the user will hear a beep sound instead.

  If
  you do not specify form-object-ref, the statement
  displays and blocks for input on any non-modal forms that you have previously
  initialized by setting their Visible properties to
  TRUE or by invoking their Show() methods. Without
  form-object-ref, you also do not need to have a.NET form instantiated before you execute the WAIT-FOR statement. Without any non-modal.NET form created, this statement processes ABL events until you create and initialize
  your first.NET non-modal form for display in an associated event handler or trigger, at
  which point the same WAIT-FOR statement processes both.NET and ABL events.

  Also, if you do not specify form-object-ref, the WAIT-FOR statement unblocks and continues execution
  with the following statement only when you invoke the System.Windows.Forms.Application:Exit() method at some point in the ABL
  session. This method closes all non-modal.NET forms that are currently open before
  unblocking the WAIT-FOR statement. Note that using this technique, you must be sure to
  create and initialize at least one.NET form or ABL window (non-modal or modal) so there
  are active components to work with during the input-blocking state. Otherwise, the
  blocking WAIT-FOR statement blocks indefinitely or until the user presses CTRL+BREAK.

  Note: When working with any displayed non-modal form, except the form specified by
  form-object-ref, the user (using the Close
  (X) button) or the application (using the
  Close() method) can close the form. However, this
  does not by itself unblock the blocking WAIT-FOR statement. If you want the WAIT-FOR to
  unblock other than by closing the form specified by form-object-ref, your application must call Application:Exit().
 To block on a.NET modal dialog box, you must use a WAIT-FOR statement
  that executes the ShowDialog() input-blocking method on
  the specified form object (as shown for rDialog in the
  example class, r-WaitForms.cls):

  This causes the WAIT-FOR statement to display the form
  specified by the dialog-object-ref object reference,
  and block for input on that form as a dialog box. You can also specify the object
  reference of a form (parent-form) that becomes the
  parent of the dialog box referenced by dialog-object-ref. (This allows the.NET dialog box to display centered
  over the parent form.)

  Note that by convention, every.NET class
  that can implement a modal dialog box has a ShowDialog() method, such as System.Windows.Forms.Form and System.Windows.Forms.CommonDialog, as well as classes that derive from them,
  like System.Windows.Forms.OpenFileDialog. Therefore,
  this syntax for the WAIT-FOR statement allows you to open all these different types of
  dialog boxes.

  Note: The System.Windows.Forms.MessageBox class does not work this way. Instead, it is
  similar to the MESSAGE statement with the VIEW-AS ALERT-BOX option, which handles its
  own input without events. Similarly, you can only open a MessageBox by invoking its static Show() method outside of a WAIT-FOR statement.

  With dialog-object-ref:ShowDialog(), the WAIT-FOR statement unblocks and continues execution with
  the following statement if one of the following actions occurs:
• The user clicks the dialog box Close (X) button in the upper right corner of the dialog box.
• You set the dialog-object-ref:DialogResult property
    (if the form class supports it) to a valid System.Windows.Forms.DialogResult enumeration value.
• You call the dialog-object-ref:Close() method. Note
    that calling this method also automatically calls the Dispose() method on the form, making the form object available for
    garbage collection.

  For any of these actions, the FormClosing and FormClosed events are also
  published on dialog-object-ref, and you can handle
  the FormClosing event in order to prevent the form
  from being closed by canceling the action, as shown in the example.

  CAUTION:.NET automatically calls Dispose() on a non-modal form when it is closed, unless the form is shown
  as a dialog box..NET simply hides the dialog when it is closed. However, the AVM calls
  Dispose() by default for dialogs that inherit from
  Progress.Windows.Form. The AVM does not do this if
  the DisposeDialogOnClose property of the form is set
  to FALSE. This can be set on a particular instance or globally using the No Dialog
  Dispose (-nodialogdispose) startup parameter. One use
  case for not calling Dispose() is if you want to
  re-use the form at a later time.

  At this point, you can check
  the user response to the dialog box. Note that ShowDialog() returns a DialogResult
  (enumeration) value with the result of the dialog box. You can access this value using
  the SET option (as shown in the r-WaitForms.cls
  example) or by checking the dialog-object-ref:DialogResult property (if the form object is still
  available and the class supports it).

  Note: Not all.NET form classes provide a public DialogResult
  property—for example, System.Windows.Forms.FileDialog.
  For a form that does not provide this property, you can handle dialog box results in the
  following ways: 1) by using the SET option to return the form's ShowDialog() method value, 2) by using event handlers subscribed to the
  events that the form provides, for example, the FileOk
  or HelpRequest event, or 3) by testing the values of
  properties that might otherwise be set depending on input to the dialog box, such as the
  FileName property of the System.Windows.Forms.OpenFileDialog object..NET
  does not set the dialog-object-ref:DialogResult property automatically except in two
  cases:
• The user clicks the dialog box Close (X) button in the upper right corner, which sets the property to the
    DialogResult:Cancel enumeration value.
• The user clicks a button (or any control that implements the
    System.Windows.Forms.IButtonControl interface)
    contained by the dialog box whose DialogResult
    property you have set with a valid DialogResult
    enumeration value. In this case,.NET automatically sets the dialog-object-ref:DialogResult property
    to the value of the button property.

  Otherwise, your application must set the value of dialog-object-ref:DialogResult directly, typically in an event handler. Note that if you want.NET to automatically set the dialog-object-ref:DialogResult property
  from a button DialogResult property, your application
  must initialize the DialogResult value for the button
  property before the user clicks a given button.
 You can detect that a specific form is closing by handling its FormClosing event; you can detect that a specific form has
  already closed by handling its FormClosed event.
  However, note that the Closed event does not fire for
  non-modal.NET forms that you close by calling Application:Exit() and that are not specified by the form-object-ref parameter passed to the Application:Run() method.

  CAUTION: Do not delete the ABL object reference to the object (sender) that
  publishes a FormClosing event from within its FormClosing event handler. This causes the FormClosing event to be published a second time. If you need
  to delete the sender for an event that is associated with closing a form before the AVM
  garbage collects it, execute the DELETE OBJECT statement for the sender within a handler
  for its FormClosed event.
 If you specify a non-blocking method in a WAIT-FOR statement, the
  method executes and the WAIT-FOR immediately returns, resuming execution with the next
  available statement. ABL does not prevent this. However, the WAIT-FOR statement, in this
  case, works no differently than invoking the method as a statement by itself.

  Note: Progress Software Corporation recommends that you donot invoke non-blocking methods using
  the WAIT-FOR statement.
 The one WAIT-FOR statement that you execute for non-modal.NET forms
  after setting their Visible properties to TRUE or by
  invoking their Show() methods, must call the Application:Run() method to make the forms visible and
  usable. If you execute any other form of the WAIT-FOR statement after making non-modal.NET forms visible, such as one that blocks for an ABL event (even a developer event, such
  as U1 OF THIS-PROCEDURE), the ABL virtual machine (AVM) raises STOP on this WAIT-FOR
  statement.
 You cannot set the Visible property
  or call the Show() method on a modal.NET form before
  executing a WAIT-FOR statement on the ShowDialog()
  method. If you execute a WAIT-FOR statement that calls the ShowDialog() method on a modal.NET form that you have previously made
  visible,.NET raises a run-time exception.
 Once you execute a non-modal WAIT-FOR statement that calls the Application:Run() method, the statement goes into a wait
  state that allows any event handlers or triggers to run in response to all types of
  ABL-supported events, including.NET events, ABL UI events, and ABL non-UI events (such as
  socket events). In the associated event handlers or triggers, you can then create and
  display additional.NET non-modal forms (by setting their Visible properties or invoking their Show()
  methods) or ABL non-modal windows (for example, by setting their VISIBLE attributes to
  TRUE, executing DISPLAY statements, or executing a VIEW statement), and the existing
  WAIT-FOR statement processes events associated with these new non-modal.NET forms or ABL
  windows in addition to any other events it is already processing. To open modal dialog
  boxes (.NET or ABL) from an event handler or trigger, you must execute an additional
  WAIT-FOR statement for each dialog box that you open. Each such WAIT-FOR statement then
  blocks until its associated modal dialog box is closed, allowing the event handler or
  trigger that invoked the statement to resume execution..NET does not support blocking for multiple non-modal forms
  simultaneously at more than one point in an application. If you attempt to execute more
  than one non-modal WAIT-FOR statement that calls Application:Run() by invoking a second such WAIT-FOR statement in an event
  handler or trigger,.NET raises an exception, which in turn raises STOP on this second
  WAIT-FOR statement.

  CAUTION: After you execute an additional
  WAIT-FOR statement that calls Application:Run(), even
  if you trap the STOP condition with ON STOP,.NET does not allow another call to Applicaton:Run() in the same session. You must exit the ABL
  session and fix the application to avoid such simultaneous calls to Applicaton:Run().
 You must execute a separate WAIT-FOR statement for each modal.NET
  dialog box or ABL dialog box that you open. The modal nature of each dialog box guarantees
  that the corresponding WAIT-FOR statements unblock and resume execution with the
  statements that follow them in order of the most recently opened dialog box. However,
  while blocking on any.NET or ABL modal dialog box, you cannot then execute a non-modal
  WAIT-FOR statement calling Application:Run(), even if
  no previous non-modal WAIT-FOR statement is still in a wait state. Attempting to call a
  non-modal WAIT-FOR statement while any modal.NET dialog box or ABL dialog box is open
  raises a run-time error.
 If you add non-modal.NET forms to an existing ABL application that
  already contains WAIT-FOR statements to process non-modal ABL GUI and non-GUI events,
  replace these WAIT-FOR statements (except those that block on ABL
  modal dialog boxes) with a single WAIT-FOR statement that calls Application:Run(). In order to have an active.NET form in your application,
  you must execute your latest (and usually only) WAIT-FOR
  statement in the format that calls a.NET input-blocking method (for example, waiting on
  Application:Run()) so that it is in effect to process.NET events. This allows the application to handle the same ABL events after adding.NET
  forms that it handled before you added the.NET forms.
 You cannot use the APPLY statement to force a WAIT-FOR statement that
  is blocking on.NET forms to unblock and continue execution with the statement following
  the WAIT-FOR statement. Instead, call the appropriate.NET method (for example, Close() or Application:Exit()) to unblock the WAIT-FOR statement and continue with the
  next statement.
 To handle a particular.NET event while the WAIT-FOR statement that
  processes the event is executing, you must subscribe a.NET event handler to the specified
  event using the Subscribe() event method
  before the event is raised. For more information on event methods
  and event handlers for.NET events, see the Class Events Reference.
 If an ABL handler for a.NET event raises an unhandled error condition
  or throws an error object out of the handler, the AVM does not throw a.NET Exception back to the.NET Common Language Runtime (CLR), but
  displays a message to the default output device and continues blocking for events.
 You cannot invoke the non-modal.NET System.Windows.Forms.Application:Run() method or the.NET ShowDialog() method used to display a modal dialog box in any
  ABL context other than in a WAIT-FOR statement. Any attempt to do so raises a run-time
  error.

See also

Type-name syntax, USING statement, WAIT-FOR statement (ABL only)




WAIT-FOR statement (ABL only)

This WAIT-FOR statement instructs the AVM to stop executing the
current block until a specific ABL event occurs. The AVM continues to respond to all
other incoming events and execute any associated triggers or event procedures while
in this wait state.

Note: ABL supports a separate version of the WAIT-FOR
statement (.NET WAIT-FOR) that blocks for.NET, as well
as ABL, events. For more information, see the WAIT-FOR statement (.NET and ABL) reference entry.

Syntax

event-list: A space or comma-separated list of user-interface events
    and other ABL events to wait for.

    An event can be any event described in the Handle-based Object Events Reference.

widget-list: A space- or comma-separated list of widgets with which
    the event is associated. For more information on referencing widgets,
    see the Widget phrase reference entry.

FOCUS widget: Specifies the widget that initially receives input focus
    when the WAIT-FOR statement is executed. The value widget must be a valid reference to a
    widget (a widget name or handle) that is currently displayed and
    enabled.

PAUSE n: Specifies a time-out interval for the WAIT-FOR statement.
    The value n can be any numeric
    expression, including a fractional value. You can choose a whole or a
    fractional value for the time-out interval. If the time-out period you
    specify is a fractional value, the value is rounded to the nearest whole
    millisecond. If a period of n seconds
    elapses between events, the WAIT-FOR automatically terminates.

Examples

This procedure defines two buttons, defines triggers for them, and
enables them. The procedure then waits for the user to close the current window. The
initial focus is placed on the button labeled MORE. The user can then choose buttons
continuously until closing the window or exiting with the END-ERROR key.

r-wait.p

If the user closes the current window then execution continues after
the WAIT-FOR statement. In this case, the procedure ends because there are no more
statements.

The following procedure uses the PAUSE option of the WAIT-FOR
statement so that you automatically jump ahead to the next record if the user does
not perform any action within three seconds after the customer information is
displayed:

r-waitpn.p

In this example, the code for finding the next Customer has been
moved to an internal procedure. The WAIT-FOR statement has been placed inside a DO
loop. The loop iterates when the user chooses the NEXT button or three seconds
elapse. (If the user closes the window, the QUIT statement is executed and the loop
does not iterate.) On each iteration, if the variable jump-ahead is TRUE, then the
next-cust procedure is run to find and display the next Customer. If the user
chooses the MORE button for a Customer, jump-ahead is set to FALSE. This prevents
the procedure from automatically jumping ahead to the next Customer. Instead, the
user can spend time examining the data. To move ahead to the next Customer, the user
must explicitly choose the NEXT button. At that point, jump-ahead is reset to
TRUE.

Notes

 Any widget associated with an event must be enabled before you
  wait on it.
 In general, do not use an UPDATE statement in an application
  that executes a WAIT-FOR statement. One exception is updating fields in a dialog
  box.
 In general, if you nest two WAIT-FOR statements in a single ABL
  application (where the nested WAIT-FOR executes in a trigger), you must ensure
  that your application satisfies the nested WAIT-FOR first. The event that
  satisfies the outer WAIT-FOR statement should be the terminating event for your
  application.
 In general, when a modal dialog box is active, the event-list can reference only events supported by
  the active dialog box and the widgets it contains. There are two exceptions:
• You can specify an event on a procedure handle as long
    as widget-list specifies only a
    single procedure handle.
• You can specify the PROCEDURE-COMPLETE event on an
    asynchronous request handle.
 In batch mode (running with the -b startup parameter) and when running on an application server,
  the WAIT-FOR statement supports only the following events:
• PROCEDURE-COMPLETE
• READ-RESPONSE
• CONNECT
• Developer events (U1 to U10, and CLOSE)

  The ten miscellaneous developer events (U1 to U10) have
  no standard meaning or action. They are reserved for an ABL developer to use
  for associating a trigger with some event that only happens programmatically
  using the APPLY statement. They have nothing to do with a particular user
  action and have no built-in significance. The CLOSE event has these same
  characteristics and only occurs when specified with the APPLY statement.

  OpenEdge clients running in batch mode process these
  events just like non-batch clients do.
 The PROCEDURE-COMPLETE event occurs for an asynchronous request
  handle when the current ABL session receives the response message from the
  application server that executed the request. When the WAIT-FOR statement
  executes, it processes any PROCEDURE-COMPLETE event that has occurred but has
  not yet been processed.
 PROCEDURE-COMPLETE events from a single application server
  connection are processed in the order that the associated asynchronous requests
  were originally generated. To ensure that all pending PROCEDURE-COMPLETE events
  are handled by a single WAIT-FOR statement, specify a single PROCEDURE-COMPLETE
  event for the last asynchronous request handle generated before the WAIT-FOR
  statement.
 To process a PROCEDURE-COMPLETE event for a particular
  asynchronous request handle, the AVM:
• Decrements the ASYNC-REQUEST-COUNT attribute for the
    server referenced by SERVER attribute for the asynchronous request
    handle.
• Decrements the ASYNC-REQUEST-COUNT attribute for a
    persistent procedure, if the PERSISTENT-PROCEDURE attribute of the
    asynchronous request handle refers to a valid persistent procedure.
• Sets the COMPLETE attribute for the asynchronous
    request handle to TRUE.
• Sets the STOP, QUIT, and ERROR attributes for the
    asynchronous request handle appropriately as indicated by the response
    message from the application server.
• Sets the return value for the RETURN-VALUE function, if
    a return value was returned by the application server.
• Stores any error information returned from the
    application server in the ERROR-STATUS system handle.
• Attempts to execute the
    event procedure or method specified by the EVENT-HANDLER and the
    EVENT-HANDLER-CONTEXT attributes for the asynchronous request handle, if
    EVENT-HANDLER is not the empty string ("").
• Sets each INPUT parameter
    for the event procedure or method to the Unknown value (?) or, if the parameter is a TEMP-TABLE,
    the TEMP-TABLE remains unchanged, if the response message indicates that
    the remote request finished with a STOP, ERROR, or QUIT condition.
• Sets the INPUT parameter
    values for the event procedure or method to the OUTPUT and INPUT-OUTPUT
    parameter values returned by the remote procedure, if the response
    message indicates that the remote request completed successfully.
• Displays an error message,
    if the specified event procedure or method fails to execute for any
    reason.
• Raises any unhandled STOP
    condition, ERROR condition, or QUIT condition in the context of the
    WAIT-FOR statement, if the event procedure or method completes execution
    with that condition.
 These are possible causes for
  failing to execute the event procedure or method for a PROCEDURE-COMPLETE event.
  All of these failures raise a STOP condition in the context of the WAIT-FOR statement:
• The procedure handle or method referenced by the
    EVENT-HANDLER-CONTEXT attribute is no longer valid.
• The procedure or method specified by the EVENT-HANDLER
    attribute cannot be found.
• The parameters to the procedure or method specified by
    the EVENT-HANDLER attribute are not all INPUT parameters.
• The parameter signature of the procedure or method
    specified by the EVENT-HANDLER attribute does not match the output
    parameters returned in the response message for the asynchronous
    request.
 For SpeedScript, the WAIT-FOR statement instructs WebSpeed to
  stop executing the current block until the WEB-NOTIFY event occurs. The
  WEB-NOTIFY event is intended for internal use only, it does not apply to
  SpeedScript programming.
• In the context of the.NET blocking method, System.Windows.Forms.Application:Run(), if you
  directly or indirectly execute this WAIT-FOR statement while displaying a
  non-modal ABL window, in certain contexts (such as within a user-defined
  function or non-VOID method) this statement
  execution raises the STOP condition. For more information on the.NET Application:Run(), method, see the reference
  entry for the WAIT-FOR statement (.NET and ABL).

See also

CONNECT event,
Developer events,
DISABLE statement,
ENABLE statement,
ON statement,
PROCEDURE-COMPLETE events,
READ-RESPONSE event,
Trigger phrase,
WAIT-FOR statement (.NET and ABL), Widget phrase




