INTEGER function

Converts an expression of any data type, with
the exception of BLOB, CLOB, and RAW, to a 32-bit integer value
of data type INTEGER, rounding that value if necessary.

Syntax

expression: A constant, field name, variable name, or expression. The function behaves as
    described for the following data types:

     If the value of expression is a CHARACTER, it must be valid for
      conversion into a number (for example, "1.67" is valid, "1.x3" is not).
     If expression is an object reference (CLASS), the result is the
      ABL-generated ID for the class instance.
     If expression is a reference to an instance of an enum, the
      result is the underlying numeric value of that instance. Because the underlying
      numeric values of enum members are of type INT64, the function may raise an error if
      the value cannot be represented as an INTEGER.
     If expression is a LOGICAL, the result is 0 if
      expression is FALSE and the result is 1 if
      expression is TRUE.
• If expression is a DATE, the result is the number of days from
      1/1/4713 B.C. to that day. If expression is the Unknown value
      (?), the result is the Unknown value (?).

Example

This
procedure takes the first word (that is, the substring that precedes
the first space character) from the Customer Address and tries
to convert it to an integer (street-number). If the conversion fails
(for example, the first word contains non-numeric characters) the
procedure displays an error message. Otherwise the CustNum, Address,
and converted street number are displayed.

r-intgr.p

See also

DECIMAL function, STRING function




LOGICAL function

Converts any data type into the LOGICAL data type.

Syntax

expression: An expression in the data type that you want to
    convert to logical.

char-expression-format: A character expression that evaluates to a valid logical format,
    such as "si/no", or "da/nyet". This
    argument is ignored unless expression is of CHARACTER
    type. Also, this argument is only needed if expression evaluates
    to something other than the usual TRUE or FALSE, or YES or NO values.

Example

The
following code fragment illustrates the Logical function:

Notes

 If
  the value of expression is the Unknown value (?),
  the LOGICAL function returns the Unknown value (?).
 If expression is of type DECIMAL, INTEGER, INT64,
  DATE, DATETIME, DATTIME-TZ, or HANDLE, the function returns TRUE
  if the value of expression is nonzero. If the
  value of expression is 0, it returns FALSE. The second
  argument is ignored if present.
 If expression is of type LONGCHAR or CHARACTER,
  it returns TRUE or FALSE depending on the value in the expression
  and the format used. Whether or not char-expression-format is
  given, the case-insensitive values TRUE, FALSE, YES, NO, abbreviated
  to 1 character, are always accepted. For example, a "Y" is interpreted
  as TRUE.
 If char-expression-format is given, it is
  validated. If it is not valid, an error message appears and the Unknown value (?) is
  returned. Otherwise, the format is used to interpret the character
  string if it is not one of the following: TRUE, FALSE, YES, or NO.
  For example, LOGICAL ("si", "si/no") returns TRUE.
• Data types such as RAW, MEMPTR, LVARBINARY, and so on return
  the Unknown value (?), but this is not considered an error.

See also

STRING function, INTEGER function, DATE function




Logical values

Represent values of logical expressions.

Syntax

YES | TRUE: A value that signifies a valid result for a logical expression.

NO | FALSE: A value that signifies an invalid result for a logical expression.

Note

You must
use these values in a procedure even if alternate values are given in
the FORMAT specification for a field or variable.




TO-ROWID function

Converts a string representation of a ROWID
to a valid ROWID value.

Syntax

rowid-string: A string representation of a ROWID. Since ROWID values are a
    variable sequence of hexadecimal digits, rowid-string must
    be in the form "0xhex-digits", where hex-digits is
    any string of characters from 0 through 9 and A through F.

Example

The
following procedure (r-torwid.p) selects Customer Balance and
credit information and displays it in a browse. You can select any
number of rows to store and display more information on the selected
Customers.

r-torwid.p

Thus, when you choose the bstore button, r-torwid.p stores
the ROWID string values of all selected Customer records in a temp-table.
When you choose the bdisplay button, it displays the selected Customer
Phone information in a DOWN frame by converting each stored ROWID
string to a ROWID value and finding the corresponding Customer record.
(The example also allows you to add selections and restart by deleting the
existing selections.)

Note

Although
TO-ROWID converts a properly formatted string to a ROWID value,
there is no guarantee that this value corresponds to an existing
record in your database.

See also

DATE function, DECIMAL function, INTEGER function, ROWID function, STRING function




