Handle Attributes and Methods Reference

This section contains reference entries that describe
each handle attribute, handle method, COM object property, and COM
object method that ABL supports. Handle attributes and methods,
and COM object properties and methods, are all mechanisms that allow
you to monitor and control the behavior of ABL handle-based objects
(including widgets), system handles, and COM objects.

For information on ABL widgets, see the Widget Reference.
For information on all other handle-base objects and system handles,
see the Handle Reference.
For information on handle attributes and methods that apply to SpeedScript,
see the Handle Reference.

Each handle-based object has a set of attributes and methods
(referred to generally as handle attributes and handle methods).
Each COM object also has a set of properties and methods. This section
describes every handle attribute and method available in ABL, but describes
only the COM object properties and methods that directly support
the ActiveX control container technology in ABL. All other Automation
objects and ActiveX controls that you access from ABL provide their
own COM object properties and methods. For more information on these
properties and methods, see the documentation that comes with each
COM object.

In this section, names of handle attributes and methods appear
in all-uppercase, while names of COM object properties and methods,
which follow Visual Basic coding conventions, appear in mixed case.

This section begins by explaining the syntax for handle-based
object references. The basic syntax is similar for both handle-based
and COM objects. However, it has been extended for COM objects to
support the unique features of Automation objects and ActiveX controls.
This extended syntax for COM object references follows in a separate
section.

The descriptions that follow refer to both compile-time and run-time behavior,
features that the language generally supports and determines at compile
time and actions directed by using these features at run time. When describing
compile-time features or actions, this section references ABL or
the ABL compiler. When describing ABL-directed actions taken at
run time, this section references the ABL Virtual Machine (AVM).

Note:

In character interfaces, all handle attributes and methods that reference pixels (for
example, the HEIGHT-PIXELS attribute and the GET-TEXT-HEIGHT-PIXELS method) use a system
default pixel value for the equivalent value in characters.

Properties and methods of classes are conceptually analogous to but different from either
handle attributes and methods or COM object properties and methods. Class-based properties
and methods participate in class hierarchies that you typically define, extend, and
instantiate as objects of a user-defined class or interface type. All handle attributes and
methods are associated with ABL handle-based objects, and are entirely defined and made
available by ABL. COM object properties and methods are associated with pre-defined COM
objects (Automation objects and ActiveX controls). The syntax for accessing all types of
attributes, methods, and properties is very similar, but differ depending on the type of
object with which they are associated. This section describes how to access the attributes,
properties, and methods of respective ABL handle-based objects and COM objects only. For
more information on accessing properties and methods of a class-based object, see the Class-based property access and Class-based method call reference entries.




Accessing handle attributes and methods

A handle attribute is a value that defines
a visible, functional, and other characteristic of an ABL handle-based
object. System handles also have attributes that describe and control
certain handle-based object or system states. Attributes can be
readable, writeable, or both. Readable means that your code can
assign the value of the attribute to a variable or reference its
value in an expression. Writeable means that your code can change
the value of an attribute and thereby change the associated characteristic
of the object or system state. Whether or not an attribute is readable
or writeable depends on a number of factors (for example, the widget
type, system handle type, widget realization, etc.).

A handle method is a specialized function associated
with an ABL handle-based object that performs an action on the object,
or alters the behavior of the object. Some system handles also have
methods that affect certain widget and system behaviors. All methods
return a value and some methods require parameters. The return value
usually is a logical value specifying whether or not the execution
of the method was successful. However, some methods return other
types of information.




