Define event handlers

To use class events in your application, you must create
one or more event handlers. A class event handler can be any class
method or internal procedure whose signature is compatible with
the signature defined for a given ABL or.NET class event. However,
verification of the event handler signature occurs at a different
point for method event handlers (at handler subscription compile
time) than for internal procedure event handlers (at event publish
run time). Note that all class event signatures include a VOID return
type; therefore, any event handler method must also have a VOID
return type.

For ABL class events, including ABL class events that implement
inherited.NET abstract events, if you raise ERROR or throw an error
object, the error is raised on the statement that executes the Publish() event method on the event as if you had called the event handler
directly. For information on errors raised in handlers for.NET
events, see Define handlers for.NET events.




Define handlers for .NET events

Class Events Reference - Define handlers for.NET events
If you use a.NET delegate to define an ABL class event,
or if you are defining an ABL method or internal procedure as a
handler for a.NET event, you must define your event handler signature
to match the delegate specified for the event. (In.NET, you implement
event handlers by defining derivations of the specified delegate
type.) For both ABL class events and.NET events, ABL only supports
delegates whose signatures conform to the Microsoft.NET convention
for event handler signatures. This signature convention provides
for a VOID return type and two INPUT parameters, where the first
parameter is a reference to a.NET System.Object that
published the event, and the second parameter is a reference to
a.NET System.EventArgs (or a derived class) that
provides event arguments as public members of the class.

Syntax

The
signature for any ABL event handler defined for a.NET delegate
must conform to this general syntax:

EventHandlerName: The name of your class-based method or internal procedure.

sender: Object reference to the.NET class instance that published the event.

args: Object reference to an event arguments class that contains public properties
    that provide arguments for the event. Note that for a.NET event, args references
    an object that is created by.NET and added to the ABL session object
    chain when the event handler executes. Like any other locally scoped
    object reference, if you do not save the value before the event
    handler terminates, ABL automatically garbage collects this object
    at some point after the event handler returns.

EventArgsClass: The class type name of the event arguments class. This is always System.EventArgs or
    one of its derived classes. Thus, System.EventArgs is
    the base class for all event arguments classes that an event handler
    can receive through this INPUT parameter.

To
identify the exact handler signature for a given.NET delegate,
you must look up the delegate in the appropriate class library documentation
or use the Class Browser of Progress Developer Studio for OpenEdge
to inspect the class. For.NET events supported on the built-in.NET classes provided by OpenEdge and described in the Class, Interface, and Enumeration Reference, each event reference entry described further on
in this section indicates the delegate type associated with the
event along with its matching event handler signature. Otherwise,
to locate the delegate in.NET class library documentation, find
the event you want to handle in the documentation for the class
that publishes the event. The event definition includes a reference
to its delegate type. The documentation for the specified delegate
shows the.NET signature you must use for your event handler.

If
you do not trap and handle an error raised within a handler for
a.NET event, whether it is raised as the ERROR condition or thrown
as an error object, the AVM does not throw an Exception back
to.NET, but displays an error message on the default output device
and continues processing as if no error had occurred. So, unlike
handlers for ABL class events, if you subscribe multiple handlers
for a.NET event, all the handlers execute regardless if one or
more of them raises an error.




Define multiple handlers for an event

If you need to subscribe more than one event handler
for an ABL class event, when you publish the event, any OUTPUT or INPUT-OUTPUT
parameter you define returns the value set by the final event handler
to execute. In addition, any INPUT-OUTPUT parameter you define passes
the value set by one event handler as input to the next event handler
to execute. A similar effect occurs if you pass a handle or object
reference as an INPUT parameter and your event handlers set the
value of a public data member on the handle or class-based object.
The returned value of the input object data element is the value
set by the final handler to execute for the event. In addition,
the order of execution for multiple handlers subscribed to a single event
is not guaranteed, making it difficult or impossible to know exactly
how parameter values returned from the Publish() method
have been set. So, if you use more than one handler for a given
event, you need to use caution in defining and using the parameters
for that event.

Also, if you raise ERROR or throw an error object from any one
of the handlers for the ABL class event, any event handler that
has not already run when the error is raised does not run. Therefore,
if you want all handlers to run for an event, regardless of error
conditions, you must resolve all conditions within each handler
and allow the handler to return successfully.




Events and event methods reference

The following reference entries document both the events of built-in ABL
classes and the built-in event methods for working with all class events. The ABL built-in
classes also include a set of.NET objects defined by OpenEdge. For more information on all
ABL built-in classes, see the Class, Interface, and Enumeration Reference. For information on class events defined for all other.NET objects, see
the appropriate documentation..

The reference entries for events that follow appear in alphabetical
order by event name. Each reference entry includes the syntax required
to define the signature for the event handler as a class-based method,
with EventHandlerName used to indicate a name
that you specify for the event handler. If you define the event
handler as an internal procedure, define the same number of parameters
in order by parameter mode and data type. If the event is a.NET
event, the entry description also lists the name of the.NET delegate
type defined for the event.




