ACCUMULATE statement

Calculates one or more aggregate values of an expression during the iterations of a block. Use the ACCUM function to access the result of this accumulation.

Syntax

expression: An expression for which you want to calculate the aggregate
    value. The expression you use in the ACCUMULATE statement and the
    expression you use in the ACCUM function (when using the result
    of the ACCUMULATE statement) must be in exactly the same form. (For example,
    "A \ B" and "B \ A" are not in exactly the same form.)

aggregate-phrase: Identifies one or more values to calculate based on a change in expression or a break
    group. This is the syntax for aggregate-phrase:

    Syntax

    For more information, see the Aggregate phrase reference entry.

Examples

This
procedure calculates and displays statistics for all customers,
but does not show the detail for each customer.

r-acmlt.p

The following procedure lists each item with
its inventory value and lists that value as a percentage of the
total inventory value of all items; it sorts items by highest value.

r-acmlt2.p

The following procedure displays all customers,
sorted by salesrep and country within the list for each salesrep.
The procedure calculates the balance for each customer, total balance
for each country, and total balance for each salesrep.

r-acc.p

Note

You can
use the ACCUMULATE statement only in blocks with the implicit looping
property. ABL automatically supplies looping services to REPEAT
and FOR EACH blocks. See Develop ABL Applications for
more information on block properties.

See also

ACCUM function, Aggregate phrase, AGGREGATE statement




ACCUM function

Returns the value of an aggregate expression that is calculated by an
ACCUMULATE or aggregate phrase of a DISPLAY
statement.

Syntax

aggregate-phrase: A phrase that identifies the aggregate value it should return.
    This is the syntax for aggregate-phrase:

    For more information on aggregate items, see
    the Aggregate phrase reference
    entry.

expression: An expression that was used in an earlier ACCUMULATE
    or DISPLAY statement. The expression you use in the
    ACCUMULATE or DISPLAY statement and the expression
    you use in the ACCUM function must be in exactly the same form. (For
    example, "on-hand \ cost" and "cost \ on-hand" are not in exactly the same form.) For
    the AVERAGE, SUB-AVERAGE, TOTAL, and
    SUB-TOTAL aggregate phrases, expression must be numeric.

Example

This
procedure shows a total for the extended price of each item on an order.
The running total of the order is displayed as well as the order
total and grand total for all orders. This procedure accumulates
totals at three levels.

r-accum.p

See also

ACCUMULATE statement, AGGREGATE statement, DISPLAY statement




Aggregate phrase

Identifies one or more values to calculate
based on a change in an expression or a break group.

Syntax

AVERAGE: Calculates the average of all of the values of the expression
    in a break group and the average of all of the values of the expression
    in all break groups.

COUNT: Calculates the number of times the expression was counted in
    a break group and the count of all the values in all break groups.

MAXIMUM: Calculates the maximum of all of the values of the expression
    in a break group and the maximum of all the values of the expression
    in all break groups.

MINIMUM: Calculates the minimum of all of the values of the expression
    in a break group and the minimum of all the values of the expression
    in all break groups.

TOTAL: Calculates the subtotal of all of the values of the expression
    in a break group and the grand total of all of the values of the
    expression in all break groups. When you use default aggregates,
    the actual display of the grand total is deferred until the frame
    goes out of scope.

SUB-AVERAGE: Averages values in a break group. Does not supply an average
    for all records, just for those in each break group.

SUB-COUNT: Counts the number of times an expression is in a break group.
    Does not supply a count for all records, just for those in each
    break group.

SUB-MAXIMUM: Shows the maximum value of an expression in a break group. Does not
    supply a maximum value for all records, just for those in each break group.

SUB-MINIMUM: Shows the minimum value of an expression in a break group. Does not
    supply a minimum value for all records, just for those in each break group.

SUB-TOTAL: Subtotals all of the values of the expression in a break group.
    Does not supply a total value for all records, just for those in
    each break group.

BY break-group: Performs aggregation for break groups if you use the BREAK option in
    a FOR EACH block header.

LABEL aggr-label: Specifies a label for the aggregate value. aggr-label is a standard ABL string and can use a string attribute. You can
    specify a maximum length attribute that is greater than the length of the longest label
    translation.

Examples

This
procedure lists the customer information for all customers (categorized
by country) and a subtotal of each country's balance. If you use
TOTAL instead of SUB-TOTAL, the AVM displays a grand total.

r-aggreg.p

In the following procedure, the AVM displays
the result of the COUNT aggregate even though no accumulation has
occurred. In this example, COUNT displays as 0.

r-agcnt.p

In the following procedure, the AVM uses "Avg.
Credit Limit" and "Max. Credit Limit" as the labels for the AVERAGE
and MAXIMUM aggregates respectively.

r-aglim.p

Notes

 By
  default, the AVM displays the aggregate result when the aggregate
  group ends, as long as the block iterates. If you want to suppress automatic
  display of zero aggregates, use the ACCUMULATE statement to perform
  the calculation and test the result with the ACCUM function before
  displaying the result.
 When you use aggregate phrases to accumulate values within shared frames,
  you must include the ACCUM option in the Frame phrase. See the Frame phrase reference
  entry for more information.
 An Aggregate phrase is designed to generate aggregate values
  for blocks that read forward through records in a sequential fashion.
  In blocks that read records in a non-sequential fashion (for example,
  FIND PREV, FIND FIRST, FIND LAST, etc.), an aggregate could yield
  unexpected values.
 Avoid specifying more than one aggregate of the same type for
  a single field in a block. If an aggregate of the same type for
  a single field executes more than once during a single iteration
  of a block, the aggregate could yield unexpected value.
• The BY phrase supports aggregates on break groups. The aggregate for
  a break group should reside in the block that defines the break
  group. Avoid positioning the aggregate in a conditional statement
  or sub-block in the block that defines the break group. Failure
  to follow these guidelines may yield unexpected values for the aggregate.

  You
  can build your own algorithms to generate aggregates for break groups
  in situations that do not adhere to these guidelines. For example, you
  can use variables to store aggregate values for use in expressions
  that generate the appropriate aggregate values for break groups
  across blocks in a procedure.

See also

ACCUMULATE statement, FOR statement




AGGREGATE statement

Calculates a single aggregate value for a collection of rows on the database and assigns it to a variable. Because the operation executes server-side, you may see a performance improvement compared to doing the same operation client-side using the ACCUMULATE statement and ACCUM function.

Syntax

aggregate-target-var: The name of a field or variable to set with the aggregate value. The value
    returned is numeric, therefore a DECIMAL variable holds any value returned.
    You may use an INTEGER or INT64 variable, but the value returned is
    rounded.

aggregate-operation: Valid values are COUNT, TOTAL and AVERAGE.

     COUNT - Counts the
      number of rows of field that
      satisfy the where-clause, if
      specified. Unknown (?) values are included in the
      count.
     TOTAL - Sums the
      values of field in all rows that
      satisfy the where-clause, if
      specified. field must be a field
      of some numeric data type. Unknown (?) values are
      not included in the total.
     AVERAGE - Calculates the average of all
      values of the field that satisfy
      the where-clause, if specified.
      field must be a field of
      some numeric data type. When computing the average (total/count),
      unknown (?) values are included in
      the count, but not the total. If the query returns no records for
      the AVERAGE calculation, the
      AGGREGATE statement returns the Unknown
      (?) value.

field: The field name of a table you want to get the aggregate for. The field name
    can be qualified with the table name (for example, TableName.FieldName).

FOR table-name [ where-clause ]: Defines the table name of the field and an optional where-clause for limiting the range of records
    to be used for the aggregate. If no where-clause is specified, then all values are included.

    If field is also
    qualified with a table name, then the table buffers must be the
    same.

Examples

This example code counts the number of records in the Customer table:

This example code counts the number of customers in Boston:

This example code calculate the average balance for customers in
Chicago:

This example code sums the customer balances for customers in Los
Angeles:

Notes

 The AGGREGATE statement accesses all records using
  NO-LOCK.
 The AGGREGATE statement cannot be inside a FOR loop for
  the same buffer.
 If the session has a record in scope, then that record is no longer in scope
  after the AGGREGATE statement executes.
  Therefore, you should not use the same buffers in AGGREGATE statements that are used in other parts of the
  application.
 The AGGREGATE statement is not limited to
  network clients. It can also be used with self-service clients.
 Query information logging is available
  for the AGGREGATE statement. Information is logged at level 3
  (Verbose).
• The following limitations apply to the AGGREGATE statement:
• Can only be used with a single aggregate on a single
    table.
• Is not supported with the TENANT-WHERE clause for multi-tenant tables.




ALIAS function

The ALIAS function returns the alias corresponding
to the integer value of expression.

Syntax

integer-expression: If there are, for example, three currently defined aliases,
    the functions ALIAS(1), ALIAS(2), and ALIAS(3) return them. If the
    ALIAS function cannot find a defined alias, it returns the Unknown value (?).
    For example, building on the previous example of three defined aliases,
    the functions ALIAS(4), ALIAS(5), and ALIAS(6) return the Unknown value (?) because
    they cannot find a defined alias.

Example

This
procedure displays the aliases and logical names of all connected
databases.

r-aliasf.p

See also

CONNECT statement, CONNECTED function, CREATE ALIAS statement, CREATE CALL statement, DATASERVERS function, DBCODEPAGE function, DBCOLLATION function, DBRESTRICTIONS function, DBTYPE function, DBVERSION function, DELETE ALIAS statement, DISCONNECT statement, FRAME-DB function, LDBNAME function, NUM-ALIASES function, NUM-DBS function, PDBNAME function, SDBNAME function




AMBIGUOUS function

Returns a TRUE value if the last FIND statement for a
particular record found more than one record that met the specified index criteria.

Syntax

record: The name of a record or record buffer used in a previous
    FIND statement.

    To access a record in a table
    defined for multiple databases, you might have to qualify the record's table name with
    the database name. See the record definition in the
    Record phrase reference entry
    for more information.

Examples

The following example retrieves a customer record based on a name
(cname) supplied by the user. If the procedure finds a record, it
displays fields from that record. If it does not find a record because more than one record
matched the selection criteria (name = cname), it displays the message:
"There is more than one customer with that name". If it does not find a
record because no records matched the selection criteria, it displays "Cannot find
customer with that name".

r-ambig.p

Sometimes the AMBIGUOUS function returns a TRUE value when
there is no ambiguity. For example, if there is exactly one customer record, the following
statement finds that record. Otherwise, the statement always returns a message of "not
found" rather than ambiguous:

Additionally, the following statement succeeds if there is only one
Smith listed in the database:

If the FIND statement contains a BEGINS operator with a
string, where multiple records have that field beginning with such string, and one of the
fields matches the string exactly, that record is returned and is not considered an
ambiguous request. For example:

In this example, FIND returns the record where myField is
"Run" even if another record contains "Running" in that
field.

Notes
• AMBIGUOUS is useful only when there is an index. If you use the
  AMBIGUOUS function to test a work file record, the function returns a
  value of FALSE because work files do not have indexes.

See also

AVAILABLE function, FIND statement, LOCKED function, NEW function (record buffers)




AND operator (bitwise)

Performs a bitwise AND operation on two expressions of the same flag enum type and returns
a new instance of the same type.

Syntax

flag-enum-expression: An expression whose value is a flag enum instance. Both expressions must be the same
    flag enum type, and neither expression can be the Unknown value
    (?).

Example

You can use bitwise AND to check to see if a particular flag or flags is set. This code
fragment defines a variable of type Progress.Reflect.Flags (see the Progress.Reflect.Flags enumeration entry for a full list of members) and uses AND
to check to see if the Public flag is set.

The bitwise AND operation results in an enum instance in which the only flags set are the
flags set in both expressions. In this case, the resulting instance has the
Public flag set.

You can also use Progress.Lang.FlagsEnum's IsFlagSet() method to achieve the same result:

Notes
• This operator can be used with both ABL and.NET flag enums.

See also

ENUM statement, IsFlagSet() method, NOT operator (bitwise), XOR operator (bitwise), OR operator (bitwise)




AND operator (logical)

Returns a TRUE value if each logical expression
is TRUE.

Syntax

expression: An expression that evaluates to a logical value (TRUE or FALSE).

Note: It is possible for an operand to
evaluate to the Unknown value (?). For an
AND operation, the result is FALSE if either operand evaluates to FALSE
(even if one of the operands is the Unknown value (?)). In all other cases,
the result is the Unknown value (?) if an operand evaluates to the Unknown
value (?).

Example

This
procedure lists all customers with credit limits between two values (supplied
by the user and stored in the variables low-credit and hi-credit).
The expressions Customer.CreditLimit >= low-credit and Customer.CreditLimit <=
hi-credit are logical expressions because each yields a true or
false value. Using the AND operator to join these logical expressions
results in a logical expression that follows the WHERE keyword.

r-and.p

See also

NOT operator (logical), OR operator (logical), Work with logical data




ASC function

Converts a character expression representing
a single character into the corresponding ASCII (or internal code
page) value, returned as an INTEGER.

Syntax

expression: An expression with a value of a single character that you want
    to convert to an ASCII (or internal code page) integer value. If expression is
    a constant, you must enclose it in quotation marks (" "). If the
    value of expression is other than a single character,
    ASC returns the value -1.

    The values for expression are
    case sensitive. For example, ASC("a") returns a different value
    than ASC("A").

target-codepage: A character-string expression that evaluates to the name of
    a code page. The name that you specify must be a valid code page
    name available in the OpenEdge-install-dir/convmap.cp file
    (a binary file that contains all of the tables that ABL uses for character
    management). If you supply a non-valid name, the ASC function returns
    the value -1 and returns a runtime error. Before returning an integer
    value, the ASC function converts expression from source-codepage to target-codepage.
    The returned integer value is relative to target-codepage.
    If you do not specify target-codepage, the value
    returned is the code page identified with the Internal Code Page (-cpinternal)
    parameter.

source-codepage: A character-string expression that evaluates to the name of
    a code page. The name that you specify must be a valid code page
    name available in the OpenEdge-install-dir/convmap.cp file.
    If you supply a non-valid name, the ASC function returns the value
    -1. The source-codepage specifies the name of
    the code page to which expression is relative.
    The default value of source-codepage is the code
    page identified with the Internal Code Page (-cpinternal) parameter.

Example

The
following procedure counts how many customers names begin with each
of the letters, A-Z. It counts all other customers separately. The
procedure uses the ASC function to translate a letter into an integer
that it uses as an array subscript for counting.

r-asc.p

Notes

 The
  ASC function returns the corresponding value in the specified character
  set. By default, the value of SESSION:CHARSET is iso8859-1. You
  can set a different internal code page by specifying the Internal
  Code Page (-cpinternal) parameter. For more information, see Internationalize ABL Applications.
 The ASC function is both double-byte and Unicode enabled. If
  the expression argument yields a double-byte
  character or multi-byte Unicode character in the target code page,
  this function can return a value greater than 255.

See also

CHR function, CODEPAGE-CONVERT function, INTEGER function,
SESSION system handle




AVAILABLE function

Returns a TRUE value if the record buffer you
name contains a record and returns a FALSE value if the record buffer
is empty.

When you use the FIND statement or the FOR EACH
statement to find a record, the AVM reads that record from the database
into a record buffer. This record buffer has the same name as the
file used by the FIND or FOR EACH statement, unless you specify
otherwise. The CREATE statement creates a new record in a record
buffer.

Syntax

record: The name of the record buffer you want to check.

    Note: To access a record in a table defined for multiple databases, you might
    have to qualify the record's table name with the database name. See the record definition in the Record phrase reference entry for more
    information.

Example

In
this procedure, the FIND statement with the NO-ERROR option bypasses
the default error checking and does not display the message you
get. Because ItemNum is unique, you do not have
to use the AMBIGUOUS function to pinpoint the cause of a record
not being AVAILABLE.

r-avail.p

See also

AMBIGUOUS function, FIND statement, FOR statement, LOCKED function, NEW function (record buffers)




BEGINS operator

Tests a character expression to see if that
expression begins with a second character expression.

Syntax

expression1: An expression that has a CHARACTER or LONGCHAR value that you
    test to see if it begins with expression2.

expression2: An expression that has a character value that you want to compare to
    the beginning of expression1. If you specify
    a null value ("") for expression2, the AVM returns
    all the records in the database.

Examples

In
this procedure, the user supplies a customer name or the first characters of
a customer name. The procedure finds customer records where the
name field begins with the user's input. If the customer file is
indexed on the name field, this procedure is very efficient and
retrieves only the selected records.

r-bgns.p

The next procedure lists exactly the same customers.
However, it is much less efficient because it retrieves and examines
all customer records, and only displays the ones with the appropriate
names.

r-bgns2.p

Notes

 The BEGINS operator is double-byte enabled. You can use
  the BEGINS operator to compare strings containing double-byte
  characters.
 When you use the BEGINS operator to compare LONGCHAR
  fields, BEGINS always uses the -cpcoll
  collation.
 BEGINS is useful in a WHERE phrase
  that specifies which records should be retrieved in a FOR EACH block.
  Unlike the MATCHES operator, which requires that all records in the file
  be scanned, BEGINS uses an index wherever possible.
 Most character comparisons are case insensitive in ABL. By default, all
  characters are converted to uppercase prior to comparisons. However, you can define fields
  and variables as case sensitive (use if strict ANSI SQL adherence is required). If either
  of the character expressions passed to BEGINS is a field or variable
  defined as case sensitive, the comparison is case sensitive. In a case-sensitive
  comparison "SMITH" does not equal "Smith".
 ABL considers trailing blanks in the BEGINS operator.
  For example, this statement is FALSE:

  This is different than comparisons, where trailing blanks are
  ignored. For example, this statement is TRUE:

 The BEGINS operator does not use a collation to compare character
  expressions by default. However, you can apply collation sensitivity by using the Collation-Sensitive Operator
  (-collop).

See also

MATCHES operator




BUFFER-COMPARE statement

Performs a bulk comparison of two records (source and target) by comparing
source and target fields of the same name for equality and storing the result in a field.
You can specify a list of fields to exclude, or a list of fields to include. You can also
specify WHEN...THEN phrases. For all such phrases you
specify, the AVM evaluates the WHEN portion, and if it evaluates to TRUE,
the AVM executes the THEN portion.

Syntax

source: The source database table, buffer, temp-table, or work table.

EXCEPT field: A list of source fields to exclude from the bulk compare.

USING field: A list of source fields to include in the bulk compare. The
    USING option is a positive version of the EXCEPT
    option.

TO target: The target database table, buffer, temp-table, or work table.

CASE-SENSITIVE: Directs the AVM to perform a case-sensitive comparison.

BINARY: Directs the AVM to perform a binary comparison.

SAVE RESULT IN result-field: A variable or field to contain the result of the comparison. The
    variable or field must be CHARACTER or LOGICAL.

    If result-field is CHARACTER, the result is a comma-separated
    list of fields that failed the comparison, sorted in ascending order.

    If result-field is LOGICAL, the
    result is YES if all fields are equal, or NO if any fields are unequal. In either
    case, BUFFER-COMPARE stops comparing when it encounters the first
    inequality.

EXPLICIT COMPARES: Opens a block of WHEN options. If you open the block,
    you must close it with END COMPARES.

WHEN field: Any data field in the source.

    BUFFER-COMPARE removes this field from a USING
    list or adds this field to an EXCEPT list. This removes the field
    from the bulk compare and from result-field.

compare-operator: Represents one of the following: LT,
    LE, GT, GE, EQ,
    NE, MATCHES, BEGINS, or
    CONTAINS.

    Note: For BLOB or CLOB fields,
    you can only use the EQ (=) or NE (<>)
    operators.

expression: Any valid ABL expression.

THEN statement-or-block: Any ABL statement or block. The statement or block executes when the
    WHEN clause evaluates to TRUE.

END COMPARES: Closes the block of WHEN phrases.

NO-LOBS: Directs the AVM to ignore large object data when comparing records that contain BLOB
    or CLOB fields.

    CAUTION: When using this option, you get no warning if a LOB
    field has changed. This can lead to inappropriate results. Therefore, before using
    this option, you must understand the nature of your data and be sure that logic using
    this option will not result in inconsistent or out-of-date data in the
    database.

NO-ERROR: The NO-ERROR option is used to prevent the statement from raising ERROR and displaying error messages.

Notes

 At compile time, BUFFER-COMPARE:
• Fails to compile if any source-target field pair is not type
    compatible. An example of such a pair is a field that is LOGICAL in the source, but
    DECIMAL in the target.
• Excludes from the bulk comparison all EXCEPT
    field fields and all WHEN
    field fields.
• Automatically excludes from the bulk comparison fields that appear
    in the source but not in the target.
• Tries to bind unqualified field names that appear in the
    EXCEPT and USING options to the source
    buffer.
 At run time, BUFFER-COMPARE:
• Compares all fields not in the EXCEPT phrase and
    all fields not in the WHEN phrase for equality
• Stores the result in the field that the SAVE
    phrase specifies, if any
• Evaluates each WHEN option, executing it if its
    condition evaluates to TRUE

  Note: This behavior is different from the behavior of
  the ABL CASE statement, which executes only the first
  WHEN option whose condition evaluates to TRUE.
 When comparing records that contain BLOB fields, the AVM performs
  a binary comparison on the BLOB data associated with the source
  and target records, and reports the results of the comparison.
 You cannot use the BUFFER-COMPARE statement to compare
  records that contain CLOB fields, unless one or both of the corresponding fields contain
  the Unknown value (?). However, you can convert CLOB
  fields to LONGCHAR values and use the EQ, GE,
  GT, LE, LT, or NE
  comparison operator to compare the LONGCHAR values.
 The statement supports three types of comparison for CLOB fields, namely,
  case-sensitive, binary and case-neutral.
 Use the NO-LOBS option with the
  BUFFER-COMPARE statement to ignore large object data when comparing
  records that contain BLOB or CLOB fields. You can also use the EXCEPT option to exclude BLOB and CLOB fields from the compare.

See also

BUFFER-COPY statement, NO-ERROR option




BUFFER-COPY statement

Performs a bulk copy of a source record to a target record by copying each
source field to the target field of the same name. You can specify a list of fields to
exclude from the bulk copy, or a list of fields to include in the bulk copy.

Syntax

source: The source database table, buffer, temp-table, or work table.

EXCEPT field...: A list of space-separated source fields to exclude from the
    bulk copy.

USING field...: A list of space-separated source fields to include in the bulk copy.
    The USING option is simply a positive version of the
    EXCEPT option.

TO target: The target database table, buffer, temp-table, or work table.

ASSIGN assign-expression: A space-separated list of any valid ABL ASSIGN
    statements (without the EXCEPT option, which
    BUFFER-COPY already provides). BUFFER-COPY performs
    each assign-expression and automatically excludes the
    field on the left side ("destination") of each assign-expression from the bulk copy-except for field extents (subscripted
    fields). If a field extent appears on the left side of an assign-expression, BUFFER-COPY does not automatically
    exclude that extent (such as customer.mnth-sales[1]) or the field as a whole (such as
    customer.mnth-sales) from the bulk copy.

NO-LOBS: Directs the AVM to ignore large object data when copying records that contain BLOB or
    CLOB fields.

    CAUTION: Using this option can create the potential for errors
    in your data and lead to inappropriate results. Therefore, before using this option,
    you must understand the nature of your data and be sure that logic using this option
    will not result in inconsistent or out-of-date data in the database.

NO-ERROR: The NO-ERROR option is used to prevent the statement from raising ERROR and displaying error messages.

Note: Compound assignment operators (+=, -=, =, /=) can be used with the BUFFER-COPY statement. For more information, see += Addition assignment operator, -= Subtraction assignment operator, \= Multiplication assignment operator, and /= Division assignment operator.

Example

The following example uses BUFFER-COPY twice. The first time, a
Customer database record is copied into a temp-table record. The second
time, the ASSIGN option is used with BUFFER-COPY to assign
the ItemName and TotalWeight fields of an
OrderLine record.

Notes

 At compile time, BUFFER-COPY:
• Fails to compile if any source-target field pair is not type
    compatible
• Excludes from the bulk copy all EXCEPT
    field fields, and all assign-expression fields on the left side of the assignment
• Automatically excludes fields that appear in the source but not the
    target from the bulk copy
• Tries to bind unqualified field names that appear in the
    EXCEPT and USING options to the source buffer
 At run time, BUFFER-COPY:
• Creates a target record if none already exists and executes any
    applicable CREATE triggers
• Assigns all matching fields that do not appear in the
    EXCEPT or ASSIGN options
• Performs each assign-expression
    in the ASSIGN option, one-by-one
 The BUFFER-COPY statement, like the
  VALIDATE statement, must appear within the scope of a
  FIND, a FOR EACH, or a CREATE
  statement that references the source table.
 If a BUFFER-COPY statement references
  a target buffer for the first time, ABL regards this reference as a "free reference" and
  scopes the buffer to the nearest enclosing block that can scope records. For more
  information on free references, see the topics on block properties in Develop ABL Applications.
 With respect to transaction processing, ABL treats a BUFFER-COPY statement the same way it would treat equivalent
  ASSIGN statements. For more information on transaction
  processing, see the topics on transactions in Develop ABL
  Applications.
 The compiler's XREF facility automatically creates a REFERENCE for each
  field in the fields list, a TABLE-REFERENCE for the source and target buffers, ACCESS and
  UPDATE references for any fields in the ASSIGN option, and ACCESS (or
  UPDATE) references for each source (or target) field that participates in the bulk
  copy.
 When copying records that contain a BLOB or CLOB field, the
  AVM copies the object data associated with the source record to
  the target record. If the BLOB or CLOB field in the source record
  contains the Unknown value (?), the AVM stores the Unknown value (?) in
  the BLOB or CLOB field of the target record. If the target record
  already has object data associated with it, the AVM deletes that
  object data before copying the new object data.
 Use the NO-LOBS option with the
  BUFFER-COPY statement to ignore large object data when copying records
  that contain BLOB or CLOB fields. More specifically:
• When you copy a source record to a new target record, the AVM sets
    the value of the BLOB or CLOB field in the target record to the Unknown value (?).
• When you copy a source record to an existing target record, the AVM
    does not change the value of the BLOB or CLOB field in the existing target record.

  You can also use the EXCEPT
  option to exclude BLOB and CLOB fields from the copy.

See also

BUFFER-COMPARE statement, NO-ERROR option




CAN-FIND function

Returns a TRUE value if a record is found that meets the specified
FIND criteria; otherwise it returns FALSE. CAN-FIND does
not make the record available to the procedure. You typically use the
CAN-FIND function within a VALIDATE option in a data
handling statement, such as the UPDATE statement.

You can use CAN-FIND to see if a record exists with less
system overhead than that of a FIND statement. The query capabilities are
similar. CAN-FIND is also useful for implementing inner joins among
database tables.

Syntax

You can specify the OF, WHERE,
USE-INDEX, and USING options in any order.

FIRST: Returns TRUE if CAN-FIND locates a record that meets
    the specified criteria; otherwise returns FALSE.

LAST: Returns TRUE if CAN-FIND locates a record that meets
    the specified criteria; otherwise returns FALSE.

record: The record buffer you are checking for existence.

    To
    use CAN-FIND to locate a record in a table defined for multiple
    databases, you might have to qualify the record's table name with the database name.
    See the record definition in the Record phrase reference entry for more
    information.

constant: The table you want to use has a primary index; the constant is
    the value of the last component field of that index for the record
    you want.

OF table: Qualifies the records to use by relating the record to a record
    in another table.

WHERE expression: Qualifies the record that CAN-FIND searches for. The
    expression must return a TRUE or FALSE value.

USE-INDEX index: Identifies the index you want CAN-FIND to use to find
    a record. If you do not use this argument, the AVM selects an index to use based on the
    criteria specified with the WHERE, USING,
    OF, or constant arguments.

USING [ FRAME frame ] field [ AND [ FRAME frame ] field ]: One or more names of fields you want to use to search for a record.
    The field you name in this argument must have been previously entered into a screen
    field, usually with a PROMPT-FOR statement. The field must be viewed as
    a fill-in or text widget.

SHARE-LOCK: Specifies that CAN-FIND determines whether the
    record can be SHARE-LOCKed. If you use this option without the
    NO-WAIT option, and if the record is
    EXCLUSIVE-LOCKed, CAN-FIND waits until that lock is
    released before returning. If you use SHARE-LOCK with the
    NO-WAIT option, then CAN-FIND returns a FALSE value
    immediately if the record is EXCLUSIVE-LOCKed.

NO-LOCK: Specifies that CAN-FIND determines whether the
    record can be accessed with the NO-LOCK option. This is the default for
    CAN-FIND.

NO-WAIT: Causes CAN-FIND to return immediately and return
    FALSE if the record is locked by another user.

    If you use
    NO-WAIT together with a SHARE-LOCK and the record
    found is EXCLUSIVE-LOCKed, the CAN-FIND function
    does not wait and returns FALSE.

NO-PREFETCH: Specifies that only one record can be sent across the network
    at a time. If you do not specify this option, the AVM might send
    more than one record from the server to the client in each network packet.

Example

In the following procedure, the UPDATE statement uses the
VALIDATE option to make sure that the salesrep entered matches one of the
salesreps in the database. The VALIDATE option uses the
CAN-FIND function to find the record.

r-canfnd.p

Notes

 Fields do not have to be indexed to use them in a
  CAN-FIND function. For example, you can use the following
  CAN-FIND function with the Sports2020
  database, even though the State field is not
  indexed:

  However, when you use CAN-FIND on a
  non-indexed field, the response might be slow, as with a FIND.
 You can name more than one field as part of the selection criteria. For
  example, the following CAN-FIND function works with the Sports2020 database:

 CAN-FIND supports selection criteria that uses
  inequality matches. Therefore, you can use Boolean operations in WHERE
  clauses.
 EXCLUSIVE-LOCK is not allowed in a
  CAN-FIND because CAN-FIND does not return a
  record.
 If you use the CAN-FIND function to find a record in a
  work table, the AVM disregards the NO-WAIT, SHARE-LOCK,
  and NO-LOCK options.
 You can nest CAN-FIND functions. For example, you can
  use CAN-FIND(... WHERE CAN-FIND(...WHERE CAN-FIND, etc.
 The CAN-FIND function does not cause
  FIND triggers to execute; hence a procedure can use this function to
  bypass the FIND trigger and check for the existence of records. Anyone
  writing a FIND trigger for security reasons should be aware of this.
 You cannot use the CAN-FIND function in a query's
  WHERE clause. Doing so generates a compiler error.
 Within a CAN-FIND function, if you compare tables or
  fields from multiple databases, you must explicitly specify the database name along with
  the table and field name.
 CAN-FIND does not raise a run-time error if the
  buffers in its predicate are unavailable. Developers should check for record availability
  when using outside buffers for comparison in a CAN-FIND statement and
  ensure that the buffer contains the expected value prior to using it so that the
  CAN-FIND function correctly reports the record availability.
• CAN-FIND may fail to find a newly created record. For example, in the
  following code, CAN-FIND returns NO when you may have expected it to
  return YES:

  In this example, the record is not written to the database and the index is
  not updated because the field value has not actually changed, and the ABL client delays
  the record write to the database. You can execute a RELEASE,
  VALIDATE, or FIND on the buffer before using
  CAN-FIND, which forces indexing and writing of the record to the
  database.

See also

FIND statement




CAN-QUERY function

Returns a logical value indicating whether
you can query a specified attribute or method for a specified widget.

Syntax

handle: An expression that evaluates to a handle. The handle must refer
    to a valid widget.

attribute-name: An expression that evaluates to a character-string value. The contents of the string
    must be an attribute or method name. For more information on attributes, see the Handle Attributes and Methods Reference.

Example

The
following example prompts for a widget type and an attribute. It creates
a widget of the specified type and passes a handle to that widget
and the attribute you specified to the CAN-QUERY and CAN-SET functions.
Then it reports whether the attribute can be queried or set for
that widget.

r-prog.p

Notes

For SpeedScript,
use with buffer-field, buffer-object, buffer, and query-object handles.

See also

CAN-SET function, LIST-QUERY-ATTRS function, LIST-SET-ATTRS function




CLOSE QUERY statement

Closes a query that was opened by a previous
OPEN QUERY statement.

Syntax

query: The name of an open query.

Example

The r-clsqry.p procedure
defines a query, q-cust, which it shares with r-query.p.
Each time you choose the Ascending, Descending, or CustNum button,
the procedure opens a new query for q-cust. To do this, the procedure
must first close an open query for each q-cust. Therefore, the CLOSE
QUERY statement is used in the CHOOSE trigger for each of these
buttons.

r-clsqry.p

r-query.p

Notes

 If
  a query is closed, you cannot retrieve any more records for the query.
 Closing a query frees most resources used by the query.
 After you close a query, you can reopen it with the OPEN QUERY statement.
  However, you cannot reuse the query's buffers for a different table.
  For example, a buffer, buff1, is created for the customer table
  in a DEFINE QUERY or OPEN QUERY for the query, qry1. The query is
  run and closed. You cannot now DEFINE or OPEN qry1 with buff1 for
  the item table. You can reuse buffers with CREATE QUERY, but you
  must re-run QUERY-PREPARE.
 If you do not explicitly close a query, it is closed when another
  OPEN QUERY statement is executed for the same query name.

See also

CURRENT-RESULT-ROW function, DEFINE QUERY statement, GET statement, NUM-RESULTS function, OPEN QUERY statement, REPOSITION statement




CLOSE STORED-PROCEDURE statement

For a non-ABL stored procedure, indicates that
the procedure has completed execution and retrieves any return status.
For a send-sql-statement stored procedure, closes the SQL cursor
used by the procedure.

Syntax

procedure: The name of the stored procedure that you want to close or the built-in
    procedure name, send-sql-statement.

integer-field = PROC-STATUS: Assigns the return value from a stored procedure to the specified integer
    field or variable (integer-field).

WHERE PROC-HANDLE = integer-field: An integer field or variable whose value uniquely identifies
    the stored procedure that produces the results returned from the
    data source or the SQL cursor of a send-sql-statement stored procedure.

Example

The
PROC-STATUS clause of the CLOSE STORED-PROCEDURE statement allows
the DataServer for ORACLE to retrieve the text of an ORACLE error
message that was passed to raise\application\error. Use the ERROR-STATUS:GET-MESSAGE
handle to retrieve the message, as shown in the following example:

Notes

 If
  you specified a PROC-HANDLE when you ran a stored procedure, you
  must specify the PROC-HANDLE when you close the stored procedure.
 If you do not specify a PROC-HANDLE, the CLOSE STORED-PROCEDURE
  statement will close the procedure if there is only one stored procedure
  running. If there is more than one stored procedure running, an
  error will be returned.
 You cannot close a send-sql-statement procedure until you have retrieved
  all row results.
 You can close all stored procedures at once with the following statement:
• For more information on using this statement, see Use the Oracle Data Server.

See also

PROC-HANDLE function, PROC-STATUS function, RUN STORED-PROCEDURE statement




CONNECTED function

Tells whether a database is connected. If logical
name is the logical name or alias is the alias
of a connected database, the CONNECTED function returns TRUE; otherwise, it
returns FALSE.

Syntax

logical-name: Refers to a logical name. It can be a quoted string or a character expression.
    An unquoted character string is not allowed.

alias: Refers to an alias. It can be a quoted string or a character
    expression. An unquoted character string is not allowed.

Example

This procedure runs r-dispcu.p if a
database with the logical name Sports2020 is connected:

r-cnctd.p

Notes
• By default the AVM disconnects all databases at the end of a session. The
  DISCONNECT statement, which explicitly disconnects a database, does not
  execute until all active procedures that reference the database end or stop. Therefore the
  disconnection may happen later than the end of a transaction.

See also

ALIAS function, CONNECT statement, CREATE ALIAS statement,CREATE CALL statement, DATASERVERS function, DBCODEPAGE function, DBCOLLATION function, DBRESTRICTIONS function, DBTYPE function, DBVERSION function, DELETE ALIAS statement, DISCONNECT statement, FRAME-DB function, LDBNAME function, NUM-DBS function, PDBNAME function, SDBNAME function




CONNECT statement

Establishes a connection to one or more databases from within an ABL procedure or class.

Note: OpenEdge identifies all connected databases for access within an external procedure or class at the start of execution for each compilation unit. Therefore, you cannot directly connect a database using this statement and directly access tables in the database from within the same external procedure or class. Instead, you can directly connect the database in one procedure or class, and from this one call another external subprocedure, or instantiate another class, that accesses the database tables.

Syntax

physical-name: The actual name of the database on disk. It can be a simple filename,
    relative pathname, or a fully qualified pathname, represented as an unquoted string, or
    a quoted string. If you do not give a fully qualified pathname, the AVM searches for the
    database relative to your current working directory. The database name is restricted to
    alphanumeric characters. Diacritical marks and the symbols \ " ' \; |? [ ] ()! { }
     @ + =: ~ are not permitted.

VALUE (expression): A character expression (a quoted string, field name, variable
    name, or similar expression) whose value starts with the Physical
    Database Name (-db) connection parameter followed
    by zero or more of the same client connection parameters that you
    can specify in options.

options: One or more client connection parameters (unquoted), similar to those
    used to start OpenEdge. Valid options are a subset of OpenEdge startup parameters that
    include all client database connection parameters. If you specify options without physical-name or VALUE (expression), the first
    database connection parameter must be the Physical Database Name (-db) parameter. The specification of the User ID (-U) parameter (and Password (-P) parameter, if required), determines the user identity for the
    connection, and its tenancy (if the database is multi-tenant). Note that these (and all
    connection) parameters are case sensitive.: If you need to use an argument with the special characters (diacritical marks and the
    symbols \ " ' \; |? [ ] ()! { } @ + =: ~), the argument must be quoted
    for the AVM to handle it properly. The following code shows one way to apply this for a
    password, vpasswd, that may contain special characters:: | |: CAUTION: If you do not specify -U and -P, for backward compatibility,
    OpenEdge attempts to connect the database with a default connection identity. This
    default connection identity can be set using either the blank ("") user ID or the user ID of the operating system process in which the
    AVM is running. The user ID set for the default connection identity depends on the
    domain configuration in the database. For more information on connecting with a
    default identity, see the User ID (-U) parameter
    description in Startup Command and Parameter Reference.
    For more information on the effects of connecting a database with a default identity,
    see the Notes of this statement entry.

    For more information on all database client connection parameters,
    see Startup Command and Parameter Reference.

NO-ERROR: The NO-ERROR option is used to prevent the
    statement from raising ERROR and displaying error messages.

    For the CONNECT statement with
    NO-ERROR, the option does not suppress all errors produced by the
    server; only errors caused by the CONNECT statement itself. For
    example, if the server to which you are connecting runs out of resources, its error
    message will not be suppressed. If a CONNECT error occurs (for
    example, the database does not exist or is in use in single-user mode), error
    information is written to the ERROR-STATUS system handle.

Examples

This procedure attempts to connect to databases mydb1 and mydb2 in single-user mode, with
error suppression. You must connect to a database before you run a procedure that references
it.

r-connct.p

The following four code fragments attempt exactly the same database
connection to the Sports2020 database:

The following procedure fragment shows how you can use the VALUE option to specify a user ID (cUserID) and password (cPasswd) that a user
might enter in response to a prompt to authenticate the same database connection:

Note also that this fragment encodes the password value (cPasswd) using an Encoding prefix.. For more information, see the ENCRYPT-AUDIT-MAC-KEY() method reference entry.

In the next example, assume database Sports2020 has not been previously connected, so the following r-cnct1.p procedure fails. At the start of execution,
r-cnct1.p checks whether Sports2020 is connected. If Sports2020 is not
connected, a run-time error occurs. As shown in the example, attempting to connect to
Sports2020 within the procedure does not solve the
problem:

r-cnct1.p

Instead, split r-cnct1.p into two
procedures, as shown in r-dispcu.p and r-cnct2.p:

r-dispcu.p

r-cnct2.p

This time, database Sports2020 is
connected before r-dispcu.p is invoked, so r-dispcu.p runs successfully.

The next example shows how to use the
alternate database connection set parameters (-dbalt1,
-dbalt2, -retryConnect, and -retryConnectPause) to
specify alternate databases to try connect to, in the event that the connection to the
primary database fails. Notice how outer double quotes are used to enclose the entire string
and inner single quotes are used around the -dbalt1 and
-dbalt2 arguments. You may also reverse them and use
single quotes for the outer connection string and double quotes for the inner parameter
values.

Notes

 The
  user identity set for a database connection determines:
• If
    and how the user has permission to access tables and fields in the
    connected database
• The tenant organization through which the user access a multi-tenant
    database
• The audit identity used to record audit policy events during
    the connection process
 OpenEdge authenticates any user identity that you specify for the
  CONNECT statement using the local database domain registry, even if the
  database option is set to use the application (session) domain registry.
 To authenticate the user identity specified for a database connection:
• The user's security domain must be defined in the OpenEdge database.
• The domain must be authentication-enabled:
The user's
       domain must be enabled in the database.
The user's domain must be configured with an authentication system that
       supports OpenEdge-performed user authentication. For the CONNECT
       statement (but not the startup command line), this can
       include a domain configured with a user-defined authentication system that has an
       ABL authentication plugin enabled.
The configured authentication system must have access to a source
       of valid user accounts.
• The user credentials specified by the -U and -P parameters
    must match a user account accessible through the authentication
    system configured for the user's domain.

  For information
  on OpenEdge support for domains and domain configuration, see Introduction to Identity Management.
 The user authentication operation of the CONNECT
  statement can fail for any one of the following reasons, among others:
• The User ID (-U) connection
    parameter includes an invalid format.
• The user ID's account is not found in the domain.
• The domain is not defined.
• The domain is not enabled.
• The Password (-P) value specified
    for the user account is invalid.
• The domain is configured for single sign-on (SSO) operations
    only.
• The authentication system returns an error for any other
    reason.
 For the connection identity set with the CONNECT
  statement, OpenEdge creates a sealed security token containing the user credentials for
  the database connection, which you can return as a client-principal object using the GET-DB-CLIENT function. This
  client-principal is created even if OpenEdge connects the database with a default
  connection identity (that is, you do not specify -U and
  -P). However, for a default connection identity,
  OpenEdge does not seal the client-principal using the access code configured for a
  registered domain. Instead, OpenEdge creates a unique internal access code to seal the
  object. As a result, you cannot use the sealed client-principal object to assign the
  default user identity it represents to any OpenEdge database connection or ABL
  session.
 Each connected database is assigned a logical name for the current session,
  and is referred to by this logical name during the session. Use
  the Logical Database Name (-ld) parameter to specify
  a logical name. If the logical name is not specified using the -ld parameter,
  then the physical database filename, without the.db suffix,
  is the default logical name. For example, if the physical name is /users/eastcoast/proapp/mydb.db,
  then the default logical name is mydb. Logical
  names are not case sensitive.
 Databases can have aliases (see also ALIAS function).
  A database can have more than one alias, but each alias refers to
  only one database. The first database connected during a given session
  automatically receives the alias DICTDB. The first database connected
  that has a \menu file automatically receives
  the alias FTDB. You can reassign the FTDB alias to any other FAST
  TRACK database.
 When you try to connect the same database twice using the same logical
  name, the AVM returns a warning, which you can suppress with
  NO-ERROR.
 When you try to connect different databases using the same logical
  name, the AVM returns an error message and an error condition. You can suppress the error
  condition with NO-ERROR, and test with the CONNECTED
  function.
 When you try to connect to multiple databases and a connection fails, a
  run-time error occurs. The successfully connected databases remain connected and program
  execution continues. Use the CONNECTED function to find out which
  databases are successfully connected.
 If you run a procedure that requires a database and that database
  is not connected, the AVM searches for the database in the auto-connect lists
  in all connected databases. If the AVM finds the required database there,
  it automatically attempts to connect to the database with the parameters
  set for it in the auto-connect list. You can edit the auto-connect
  list using the database utilities in the OpenEdge Data Dictionary.
  If the AVM does not find it, the connection attempt fails.
 Connection information found in an OpenEdge auto-connect list is merged
  with connection information in a CONNECT statement that connects the
  database. So, if you connect a database with a CONNECT statement, and
  that database already has an entry in the OpenEdge auto-connect list of a connected
  database, the connection information in the auto-connect list and the
  CONNECT statement is merged. However, the connection information in the
  CONNECT statement takes precedence.
 Permission issues limit the use of the CONNECT
  statement for raw I/O connections to databases in single-user and multi-user direct-access
  mode on UNIX machines that do not support O\SYNC and SWRITE.

  The ABL
  client executable might require use of a privileged account that allows it to open raw
  disk devices or large databases. Thus, you can open any databases specified on the
  startup command line with raw I/O. Note that after startup on Unix, the client
  executable relinquishes the privileges that allow it to open raw disk devices. As a
  result, you cannot use the CONNECT statement to establish a raw I/O
  connection to a database in single-user or multi-user direct-access mode.

  When you try to use a CONNECT statement to open a raw
  I/O connection to a database in single-user mode, the AVM establishes a buffered
  (non-raw) I/O connection to the database and displays a non-raw warning
  message.
 When you try to use a CONNECT statement to open a raw
  I/O connection to a database in multi-user direct-access mode, one of the following events occur:
• If you started a server (PROSERVE) for the database with the
    Buffered I/O (-r) parameter, the AVM establishes a
    non-raw I/O connection to the database.
• If you started a server (PROSERVE) for the database with the Raw
    I/O (-R) parameter, the CONNECT statement fails.

  There are several ways to avoid these problems:
• Establish raw I/O database connections in the single-user and
    multi-user direct-access modes at ABL startup.
• If you must use the CONNECT statement to establish
    a raw I/O database connection, establish the connection with the Client Multi-user
    (-cl) parameter. Be sure to start the database
    server (PROSERVE) with the Raw I/O (-R) parameter
    before you do this.
• If you must use the CONNECT statement to establish
    a raw I/O database connection in single-user or multi-user direct access mode on UNIX,
    follow these steps carefully:
Change the permissions of the ABL client executable to
       rwsrwsr-x by typing chmod 6775 \progres.
Change the group of the client executable to match the group of
       the raw device (for example, /dev/rsd0d) and
       block special device (for example, /dev/sd0d).
Change the permissions of the raw and block special devices to
       "rw-rw----".

    The disadvantage of this procedure is that all files produced
    within OpenEdge have the same group as the disk device. Consider the
    following:
• If you want to run a multi-user direct-access session in non-raw
    mode, you must start the database server with the Buffered I/O (-r) parameter.
• If a database and accompanying before-image file have read-only
    permissions (r--r--r--) and you try to connect to
    that database in single-user or multi-user mode using the CONNECT statement, the connection will fail with the following
    error:

    This connection failure results because the progres module relinquishes superuser privileges after
    startup and no longer possesses the privileges required to connect to the database
    using the CONNECT statement.
 This statement does not attempt set the connection identity
  for the foreign data source of a DataServer connection. However,
  it does attempt to set the connection identity for the OpenEdge
  schema holder database.
 For more information on connecting to databases from ABL, see OpenEdge Programming Interfaces.

See also

ALIAS function, CONNECTED function, CREATE ALIAS statement, CREATE CALL statement, DATASERVERS function, DBCODEPAGE function, DBCOLLATION function, DBRESTRICTIONS function, DBTYPE function, DBVERSION function, DELETE ALIAS statement, DISCONNECT statement, FRAME-DB function, LDBNAME function, NO-ERROR option, NUM-DBS function, PDBNAME function, SDBNAME function, SET-DB-CLIENT function, SETUSERID function




COUNT-OF function

Returns an INTEGER value that is the total number of selected records in the
table or tables you are using across break groups.

Syntax

break-group: The name of a field or expression you named in the block header with
    the BREAK BY option.

Note: The COUNT-OF function requires a
sorted, preselected list of records. This sorted preselected list is not constructed if the
BREAK is by an active index because the compiler optimization knows the
list is already sorted. The Aggregate phrase function,
COUNT, gives the count of a break or sort group and may be more
appropriate. It does not require a preselection.

Example

This procedure sorts all customers by state and then calculates the
percentage of the total number of customers that are in each state. The
COUNT-OF function provides the calculation with the number of customer
records in the database.

r-cntof.p

See also

Aggregate phrase




CREATE ALIAS statement

Creates an alias for a database. Once an alias is created, it can be used in place of the database's logical name.

Note: A database can have more than one alias, but each alias refers to one and only one database.

Syntax

alias-string | value (expression): An unquoted string, quoted string, or CHARACTER expression that
    represents an alias for the database.

    Note: The alias name is bound by the same naming
    rules as logical database names. See Logical Database Name (-ld) in the
    Startup Command and Parameter Reference, for more
    information.

FOR DATABASE logical-name-string | value (expression): An unquoted string, quoted string, or CHARACTER expression that
    represents the logical name of the database.

    Note: The
    logical name must already be set.

NO-ERROR: Tells the AVM to allow the alias to be created even if the database is
    not connected.

    If you CREATE ALIAS for a database
    that is not connected and omit NO-ERROR, the AVM reports a run-time
    error.

    Note: The NO-ERROR option of
    the CREATE ALIAS statement behaves differently from the
    NO-ERROR option of other ABL elements.

Example

This
procedure creates the alias myalias for database mydb:

r-cralas.p

Notes

 The first OpenEdge database connected during a given session receives
  the DICTDB alias.
 The first database connected that has an \_menu file automatically receives the alias FTDB. You can
  reassign the FTDB alias to any other FAST
  TRACK database.
 If there is already a database connected with logical name equal to
  alias, CREATE ALIAS fails.
 If there is an existing alias equal to alias,
  the existing alias is replaced by the new alias.
 If you want to use an expression for an alias name or logical name, you
  must use CREATE ALIAS VALUE (expression) FOR
  DATABASE VALUE (expression).
 When a given database is disconnected, the existing aliases
  that refer to it are not erased, but remain in the session alias
  table. Later in the same session, if you connect to a database with
  the same logical name, the same alias is used again.
 Aliases allow a general purpose application (such as the OpenEdge Data
  Dictionary) to expect a specific database name. The Dictionary only works on databases
  with logical name or alias "DICTDB". The end user or the application can
  use CREATE ALIAS to provide the correct alias, in case it is inconvenient
  to connect the database using the correct logical name. Also, if there are several
  connected databases, the application can ask the user which one to select, then set the
  alias accordingly. The Data Dictionary does this when you choose Select Working
  Database.
 Suppose you connect to a database with logical name
  MYNAME and compile a procedure that accesses that database. Normally,
  the saved r-code file contains references to MYNAME.

  In
  a later session, when you want to use the precompiled program, you can connect to your
  database with the same logical name (MYNAME), or you can connect with a
  different logical name and set up an alias with the statement CREATE ALIAS
  "MYNAME" FOR DATABASE logical-name.
 Usually, any alias that exists during the session when you compile
  a procedure has no effect on the resulting r-code file. When a procedure
  is compiled, the logical name of the database that is accessed within
  the procedure is put into the r-code file, not an existing alias.
  If a procedure accesses more than one database, all of the logical
  names of accessed databases are placed into the r-code file.

  However,
  any file reference that is qualified with an alias (as opposed to
  a logical name) generates a new instance of the file for the compilation. This
  new instance causes the r-code to have the alias reference and not
  the logical database name reference. Subsequent unqualified references
  to that same file within the same block, or nested blocks, will
  resolve to the new alias instance following the usual rules for
  qualifying. Unqualified references to different files in the same
  database do not get the alias name, but get the logical name. Anonymous
  references to a file, previously referenced using the alias qualifier,
  in a different, non-nested block get the logical name instead of
  the alias name.

  It is simpler to just connect to a database
  with the desired logical name, leave all references unqualified,
  not create an alias, and then compile the application. However,
  sometimes you cannot precompile. In those cases, if you want to
  compile a procedure so that only the alias gets into the r-code
  file, then explicitly qualify all file references using the alias. You
  might want only the alias to get into the r-code file, so you can compile
  and distribute procedures that will run against any database whose
  logical name has been assigned the alias contained in the r-code file.
 Changes made to an alias do not take effect within the current
  procedure. In the following example, alias1.p fails
  to compile when it reaches the FOR EACH statement, because alias myalias has been created during the compilation:

  To solve this problem, split r-alias1.p into two procedures. For example:

  r-dispnm.p

  r-alias2.p

  CREATE ALIAS affects only subsequent
  compilations; currently executing procedures are not affected.
 Be careful when using shared buffers with aliases. If you reference a
  shared buffer after changing the alias that initially was used in defining it, the AVM
  returns a run-time error. See the following example procedures for details.

  Once procedure r-main.p is run, it
  calls r-makebf.p, which calls r-disp6.p. The alias myalias is created in
  r-main.p, with reference to database Sports2020. In r-makebf.p, the shared buffer mybuf is defined for
  myalias.customer. Then, in the next line, myalias is
  changed, so that it now refers to database sports2. When an attempt is
  made to reference shared buffer mybuf in procedure r-disp6.p, a run-time error occurs, with the message:
  "r-disp6.p Unable to find shared buffer for mybuf."

  r-main.p

  r-makebf.p

  r-disp6.p

 Be careful when accessing a database sequence with an alias that points
  to a different database than the one used when the alias was defined. If you supply an
  alias name to the CURRENT-VALUE function or the
  NEXT-VALUE function, only the database used to define the alias is
  referenced. In this case, it is preferable to use theDYNAMIC-CURRENT-VALUE function and DYNAMIC-NEXT-VALUE function
  instead of the CURRENT-VALUE function and NEXT-VALUE
  function, respectively.

See also

ALIAS function, CONNECT statement, CONNECTED function, CREATE CALL statement, DATASERVERS function, DBCODEPAGE function, DBCOLLATION function, DBRESTRICTIONS function, DBTYPE function, DBVERSION function, DELETE ALIAS statement, DISCONNECT statement, DYNAMIC-CURRENT-VALUE function, DYNAMIC-NEXT-VALUE function, ERROR-STATUS system handle, FRAME-DB function, LDBNAME function, NUM-DBS function, PDBNAME function, SDBNAME function




CREATE BUFFER statement

Creates a dynamic buffer object.

Syntax

handle: A variable of type HANDLE that represents the handle of the
    buffer object.

FOR TABLE table-name|table-handle|buffer-handle: A character expression (table-name) that evaluates
    to a unique database table name or static temp-table name, a temp-table
    handle (table-handle), or to an existing buffer
    object handle (buffer-handle), each of which can
    specify the record source for which to create the buffer object.

    If table-name is
    ambiguous, you must qualify the database table name with a database
    name or rename the temp-table. Otherwise, if the database table
    exists in multiple connected databases, the AVM creates the buffer
    in the first connected database.

BUFFER-NAME buffer-name: An expression of type CHARACTER that evaluates, at run time,
    to the name of the dynamic buffer you are creating. This option
    lets a dynamic query have multiple buffers for the same table.

IN WIDGET-POOL widget-pool-name: An expression of type CHARACTER that evaluates, at run time,
    to the name of the widget pool that contains the dynamic buffer.

    Note: Widget pool names are not case-sensitive.

Example

The following example runs the query "for each customer" dynamically
against the Sports2020 database using a purely dynamic
buffer with no compile time references at all:

r-crtbuf.p

The following code fragment shows several different
ways you can create an alternate dynamic buffer for a static temp-table.
Note the notation BUFFER tt1:HANDLE and TEMP-TABLE tt1:HANDLE for
accessing the default buffer object handle and temp-table object
handle, respectively, for the static temp-table, tt1:

Notes

 If
  the character expression, table-name, identifies
  a temp-table defined as REFERENCE-ONLY, the statement sets handle to
  an unbound object that cannot function as a buffer object. To create
  a valid buffer object for such a table, use FOR TABLE table-handle or buffer-handle instead.
 Unless you need to use an alternate buffer, the most economical
  and cleanest way to obtain a buffer object handle for a table is
  to retrieve the handle for its default buffer. For example:

See also

CREATE QUERY statement, DEFINE BUFFER statement




CREATE QUERY statement

Creates a dynamic query.

Syntax

handle: A variable of type HANDLE that represents the handle of the
    query object.

IN WIDGET-POOL widget-pool-name: An expression of type CHARACTER that evaluates, at run time,
    to the name of the widget pool that contains the dynamic query.

    Note: Widget pool names are not case-sensitive.

Example

The
following example creates a dynamic query with a static buffer and
a dynamic predicate (WHERE clause) which is resolved at run time:

r-crtqry.p

Note
• CREATE-QUERY must be followed by the QUERY-PREPARE() and QUERY-OPEN()
  methods before the query can be run.

For more information on dynamic queries, see Use dynamic queries and query handles in
Develop ABL Applications.

See also

CREATE BUFFER statement, DEFINE QUERY statement, QUERY-OPEN() method, QUERY-PREPARE() method




CREATE statement

Creates a record in a table, sets all the fields
in the record to their default initial values, and moves a copy
of the record to the record buffer.

Data movement

Syntax

record: The name of the record or record buffer you are creating.

    To create a record in a table defined for multiple databases, you
    might have to qualify the record's table name with the database name. See the record definition in the Record phrase reference entry for more
    information.

FOR TENANT tenant-expression: This option is useful only for a multi-tenant database, and primarily
    one with a connection identity that has super tenant access. If the user has a
    super-tenant connection identity and you do not specify this
    option, the record you create is owned by the effective tenant. If you do specify this option, you create a record owned by the regular
    tenant identified by tenant-expression.

    If the user has a regular-tenant connection identity, and you specify
    this option, tenant-expression must match the
    tenancy of the connection identity. Otherwise, the statement raises
    ERROR.

    If tenant-expression evaluates to an integer, the value must be a valid
    tenant ID for a regular tenant or zero (0) for the
    default tenant. If tenant-expression evaluates to a
    character string, the value must be a valid tenant name for a regular or "Default" for the default tenant. Otherwise, the statement
    raises ERROR.

    If record belongs to a table that is not multi-tenant enabled, ABL raises a
    compiler error.

USING { ROWID (nrow) | RECID (nrec) }: Supported only for backward compatibility.

NO-ERROR: The NO-ERROR option is used to prevent the
    statement from raising ERROR and displaying error messages.

Example

The
following example creates a record in the order file for each pass through
the loop and then updates the record. It also creates an order-line record.

r-create.p

This procedure adds Orders and OrderLines to
the database. Because the user supplies an order number when updating
the order record, that order number is assigned
(=) to the OrderNum field of the OrderLine record
when the OrderLine record is created.

Notes

 When
  you run procedures that create large numbers of records (for example,
  during initial data loading), the process runs much faster if you
  use the No Crash Protection (-i) parameter. See Startup Command and Parameter Reference for more information
  on startup parameters. Back up your database before you use this
  parameter.
 After you create a new record with CREATE, the AVM
  waits to write the record to the database. The creation often happens after one of the following:
• The AVM is about to release the buffer, which can happen as a
    result of an explicit RELEASE or VALIDATE statement,
    the reading of a new record into the buffer, the record going out of scope, or the end
    of the transaction.
• You set a LOB field.
• You set a field that an index is based on.
 All partition fields must be set by the time a record is created in a
  partitioned database.

  Suppose you have an Order table partitioned on OrderDate, but
  with a global index on OrderNum. If OrderDate has an initial value of the Unknown value (?), the following code will produce an error:

  After the assignment of the OrderNum field, the AVM will try to index the new OrderNum in the OrderNum global index. To
  do that, it needs the partition of the new Order
  record. To get the partition, the AVM needs to use the partition column OrderDate, which is still the Unknown value (?). This will produce an error message stating that OrderDate is not in any defined partition. You can fix this
  by reversing the order of the assignments, grouping the statements into one
  ASSIGN statement, or setting an initial value for the OrderDate column. If you use one ASSIGN
  statement, the actual create of the record won't occur until after all the specified
  field assignments are gathered. Therefore the OrderDate column will already have the correct value by the time the
  partition for the new record needs to be determined.

  Note: Even if all of the partition fields have initial values, an application
  might be inefficient if the underlying record creation happens before the partition
  fields are set to something other than the initial values. In this case, the AVM may
  have to move the record to a new partition once the initial value of the partition field
  is replaced.
 The CREATE statement causes any related database
  CREATE triggers to execute. All CREATE triggers execute after the record is actually
  created. If a CREATE trigger fails (or executes a RETURN statement with
  the ERROR option), the record creation is undone.
• When specifying the FOR TENANT option, the AVM looks
  up tenant-expression in the database with a share
  lock. The AVM waits 60 seconds to get the share lock and raises ERROR if
  it fails to obtain the share lock in that amount of time. The AVM releases the share lock
  immediately after successfully fetching the row. This share lock is released even if the
  statement is called while in the scope of a transaction.

See also

BUFFER-CREATE() method, INSERT statement, NEW function (record buffers), NO-ERROR option




CURRENT-RESULT-ROW function

Returns the number of the current row of a
specified query as an INTEGER value.

Syntax

query-name: A character expression that evaluates to the name of a currently open, scrolling
    query. If query-name does not resolve to the name of a query, or if
    the query is not open or not scrolling, then the function returns the Unknown value
    (?).

    Note: Searching for a query using a handle is more
    efficient than a character expression. The AVM resolves a character expression at run
    time by searching in the current routine for a static query with that name. If not
    found, the AVM searches the enclosing main procedure. If still not found, the AVM
    searches up through the calling programs of the current routine and their main
    procedures. Since a handle uniquely identifies a query, no such search is
    required.

Example

The
following example uses the QUERY-OFF-END function to determine when
to leave the REPEAT loop:

r-resrow.p

Notes

 To
  use the CURRENT-RESULT-ROW function with a query, the query must
  be associated with a browse widget or you must define the query
  with the SCROLLING option. For more information on query definitions,
  see the reference entry for the DEFINE QUERY statement.
 If the query is empty, CURRENT-RESULT-ROW returns the Unknown value (?).
 If the query is positioned before the first record, CURRENT-RESULT-ROW
  returns the value 1. If the query is positioned beyond the last
  record, CURRENT-RESULT-ROW returns a value 1 greater than the number
  of rows in the query result list.
 When possible, the AVM performs optimizations for GET LAST and REPOSITION
  statements. These optimizations make the results list invalid. At
  that point, CURRENT-RESULT-ROW returns the Unknown value (?).
  These optimizations do not occur if the query is opened with the
  PRESELECT option or has an associated browse widget.

See also

CLOSE QUERY statement, CURRENT-REQUEST-INFO attribute, DEFINE BROWSE statement, DEFINE QUERY statement, GET statement, NUM-RESULTS function, OPEN QUERY statement, REPOSITION statement




CURRENT-VALUE function

Returns the current INT64 value of a sequence
defined in the Data Dictionary.

Syntax

sequence: An identifier that specifies the name of a sequence defined
    in the Data Dictionary.

logical-dbname: An identifier that specifies the logical name of the database in which the sequence is
    defined. The database must be connected. You can omit this parameter if the sequence
    name is unambiguous. If a sequence with this name exists in more than one connected
    database, then you must specify logical-dbname.

tenant-id: An integer expression that evaluates to the tenant ID of a regular tenant, including
    the default tenant (0). This option applies only to a multi-tenant
    sequence specified by sequence and is intended for access primarily
    by a super-tenant user.

    If you are a regular-tenant user and you specify tenant-id, the
    specified tenant must be the same as the tenant associated with the database
    connection identity for logical-dbname or the AVM raises a run-time
    error.

    If you are a super-tenant user and you do not specify tenant-id,
    the function assumes the effective tenant ID (GET-EFFECTIVE-TENANT-ID function).

    If the sequence specified by sequence is non-multi-tenant (a
    shared sequence in a multi-tenant database), and you specify
    tenant-id, the option is ignored.

Example

The
following example finds the current value of the NextCustNum sequence
and then looks for Orders with that Customer number:

r-curval.p

Notes

 The
  current value of a sequence can be one of the following:
• The
    initial value specified in the Data Dictionary
• The last value set with either the CURRENT-VALUE statement or
    the NEXT-VALUE function
• The Unknown value (?) if the sequence has exceeded
    its minimum or maximum and is not cycling
 If sequence is a multi-tenant
  sequence in the database, each regular tenant has their own current value of the sequence.
  So, the same values are returned for each tenant that invokes this function. If the
  sequence is shared in a multi-tenant database, the values returned by this function are
  unique across all tenants in the database.

  CAUTION: Be very
  careful using multi-tenant sequences when you are updating shared tables or multi-tenant
  tables for a tenant group. For more information, see the sections on using
  multi-tenant-enabled sequences in OpenEdge Programming
  Interfaces.
 Sequence values are stored in the database in which they are
  defined, and persist between each invocation of the CURRENT-VALUE
  statement or NEXT-VALUE function.
 You cannot invoke the CURRENT-VALUE function from within a WHERE
  clause. Doing so generates a compiler error. To use a result from the
  CURRENT-VALUE function in a WHERE clause, assign the result to a
  variable, then use the variable in the WHERE clause.
 You can use any combination of the NEXT-VALUE function, CURRENT-VALUE
  function, CURRENT-VALUE statement, and their dynamic versions. Use
  the dynamic version when you don't know what the database name or
  sequence name is at compile time.
 Be careful when accessing a database sequence with an alias
  that points to a different database than the one used when the alias
  was defined. If you supply an alias name to the CURRENT-VALUE function or
  the NEXT-VALUE function, only the database used to define the alias is
  referenced. In this case, it is preferable to use the DYNAMIC-CURRENT-VALUE
  function and DYNAMIC-NEXT-VALUE function instead of the CURRENT-VALUE function
  and NEXT-VALUE function, respectively.

See also

CURRENT-VALUE statement, DYNAMIC-CURRENT-VALUE function,
DYNAMIC-CURRENT-VALUE statement, DYNAMIC-NEXT-VALUE function, NEXT-VALUE function




CURRENT-VALUE statement

Resets the current integer value of a sequence
defined in the Data Dictionary.

Syntax

sequence: An identifier that specifies the name of a sequence defined
    in the Data Dictionary.

logical-dbname: An identifier that specifies the logical name of the database
    in which the sequence is defined. The database must be connected.
    You can omit this parameter if the sequence name is unambiguous.
    If more than one connected database has a sequence with given name,
    then you must supply logical-dbname.

tenant-id: An integer expression that evaluates to the tenant ID of a regular tenant,
    including the default tenant (0). This option applies
    only to a multi-tenant sequence specified by sequence and
    is intended for access primarily by a super-tenant user.

    If you
    are a regular-tenant user and you specify tenant-id,
    the specified tenant must be the same as the tenant associated with
    the database connection identity for logical-dbname or
    the AVM raises a run-time error.

    If you are a super-tenant
    user and you do not specify tenant-id, the function
    assumes the effective tenant ID (GET-EFFECTIVE-TENANT-ID function).

    If the sequence specified by sequence is non-multi-tenant
    (a shared sequence in a multi-tenant database), and you specify tenant-id,
    the option is ignored.

expression: An integer expression assigned as the current value of the specified sequence.
    If expression is outside the boundary set by
    the initial value (at one end) and the lower limit or upper limit
    (at the other end) for the sequence, the AVM returns an error, and
    the sequence value remains unchanged.

Note: Compound assignment operators (+=, -=, =, /=) can be used with the CURRENT-VALUE statement. For more information, see += Addition assignment operator, -= Subtraction assignment operator, \= Multiplication assignment operator, and /= Division assignment operator.

Example

The
following example resets the current value of the NextCustNum sequence
to the CustNum value of the last Customer record
if that is a valid value for the sequence:

r-curvl1.p

Notes

 The
  user must have CAN-WRITE privileges on the \_Sequence table to use
  the CURRENT-VALUE statement.
 The value of a sequence set by the CURRENT-VALUE statement persists
  in the database until the next CURRENT-VALUE statement or NEXT-VALUE
  function is invoked for the sequence, or until the sequence is deleted
  from the database.
 You cannot set a sequence to the Unknown value (?).
 If sequence is a multi-tenant
  sequence in the database, each regular tenant has their own current value of the sequence.
  So, each tenant that invokes this statement can set their own current values, which can be
  the same or different than the current values set by other tenants. If the sequence is
  shared in a multi-tenant database, any current value set by this statement is shared by
  all tenants in the database.

  CAUTION: Be very careful using
  multi-tenant sequences when you are updating shared tables or multi-tenant tables for a
  tenant group. For more information, see the sections on using multi-tenant-enabled
  sequences in OpenEdge Programming Interfaces
• You can use any combination of the NEXT-VALUE function, CURRENT-VALUE
  function, CURRENT-VALUE statement, and their dynamic versions. Use
  the dynamic version when you don't know what the database name or
  sequence name is at compile time.

See also

CURRENT-VALUE function, DYNAMIC-CURRENT-VALUE function, DYNAMIC-CURRENT-VALUE statement, DYNAMIC-NEXT-VALUE function, NEXT-VALUE function




DATASERVERS function

Returns a list of database types your OpenEdge product
supports from where it is executed. The DATASERVERS function takes
no arguments.

Syntax

The DATASERVERS function returns a character
string containing a comma-separated list of database types. For
example:

Which indicates licensed support for the OpenEdge database, DataServer for Microsoft SQL
Server, and DataServer for Oracle.

You can use the returned string with the LOOKUP
function to determine whether a particular type of database is supported.

Example

The
following example displays a selection list of all supported database types:

r-dserv.p

See also

ALIAS function, CONNECT statement, CONNECTED function, CREATE ALIAS statement, CREATE CALL statement, DBCODEPAGE function, DBCOLLATION function, DBRESTRICTIONS function, DBTYPE function, DBVERSION function, DELETE ALIAS statement, DISCONNECT statement, FRAME-DB function, LDBNAME function, LOOKUP function, NUM-DBS function, PDBNAME function, SDBNAME function




DEFINE BUFFER statement

ABL provides you with one default buffer for each table or temp-table that you use in a procedure or class. ABL uses that buffer to store one record at a time from the table as the records are needed during the procedure or class. If you need more than one record or buffer at a time for a table, you can use this statement to define alternate buffers that are created at compile time for use in one or more procedures, or within a single class or class hierarchy.

Syntax

NEW SHARED BUFFER buffer-name: Defines and identifies a buffer that can be used by other procedures. When
    the procedure using this statement ends, the buffer is no longer available.

SHARED BUFFER buffer-name: Defines and identifies a buffer that was created in another
    procedure with the DEFINE NEW SHARED BUFFER statement.

[ PRIVATE | PROTECTED ] [ STATIC ] BUFFER buffer-name: Defines and identifies a buffer as a data member of a class, and
    optionally specifies an access mode (PRIVATE or PROTECTED) and scope (instance or
    STATIC) for that data member. You cannot specify these options when defining a buffer as
    a data element of a method (including constructors, destructors, and property accessors)
    or a procedure.

    Note: The specified options are applicable
    only when defining a data member for a class in a class definition (.cls) file. The PRIVATE/PROTECTED modifier and the STATIC
    modifier can appear in either order, e.g., DEFINE STATIC
    PRIVATE BUFFER myBuffer... is valid syntax. Note also that you cannot
    shadow (override) the definition of a given buffer data member in a class
    hierarchy.

    PRIVATE buffer data members can be accessed by the
    defining class. An instance can access the private buffer data members of another
    instance if both instances are of the same class. PROTECTED buffer data members can be
    accessed by the defining class and any of its derived classes. An instance can access
    protected buffer data members of a second instance that is at the same level or higher
    in the class hierarchy. The default access mode is PRIVATE. When you reference a
    buffer from another data member definition (such as a query) defined in the same class
    or class hierarchy, the access mode of the buffer cannot be more restrictive than the
    access mode of the referencing data member.

    A buffer defined
    with the STATIC option is a static data member of the class type for which it is
    defined and is scoped to the ABL session where it is referenced. ABL creates one copy
    of the specified class static buffer on first reference to the class type, and ABL
    creates only one such copy for any number of instances of the class that you create.
    You can directly reference an accessible static buffer data member from any other
    static or instance class member defined in the same class or class hierarchy.

    Without the STATIC option, ABL creates an instance buffer data member
    that is scoped to a single instance of the class where it is defined. ABL creates one
    copy of the specified instance buffer for each such class instance that you create.
    You cannot directly reference an instance buffer data member from a STATIC class
    member definition defined within the same class or class hierarchy.

    Within a class, ABL defines the default buffer for any database table
    as a PRIVATE instance buffer. Thus, for example, you can only access the default
    buffer for the Customer table of the Sports2020 database wherever a PRIVATE instance buffer can
    be accessed. Otherwise, you must define an alternate buffer data member for the table
    with an appropriate access mode and scope.

    For more information
    on accessing buffers of different access modes and scopes, see the reference entry for
    Class-based data member access.

    Note: Members of a class are grouped into six
    namespaces, including buffers/temp-tables, methods, variables/properties/events,
    ProDataSets, queries, and data-sources. Buffers and temp-tables defined as members of
    a class share the same namespace. There can be only one class member in this namespace
    with a given name.

    For more information on where and how to
    define data members in a class, see the CLASS statement reference
    entry.

BUFFER buffer-name: Defines and identifies a buffer whose records you can access only within the current
    procedure, method of a class (including constructors, destructors, and property
    accessors), or as a PRIVATE data member of a class.

FOR [ TEMP-TABLE ]table-name: Identifies the name of the table for which you are defining an
    additional buffer. This can also be the built-in buffer name, proc-text-buffer, to define a buffer that returns table rows from a stored
    procedure.

    To define a buffer for a table defined for multiple
    databases, you might have to qualify the table name with the database name. See the
    record definition in the Record phrase reference entry for
    more information.

    Use the TEMP-TABLE option to define a buffer
    for a temp-table when the temp-table has the same name as a database table. Otherwise,
    ABL associates the buffer with the database table by default.

    If you define the buffer as static, and table-name is the name of a temp-table, the temp-table must also be
    defined as a static member of a class.

PRESELECT: If you use the PRESELECT option with a DO or REPEAT block, the AVM creates an internal
    list of the records selected. The PRESELECT option tells the AVM to apply that internal
    list to the buffer you define. You can also use the PRESELECT option in the DEFINE
    SHARED BUFFER statement.

LABEL label-name: Specifies a label for the buffer. This label is used in error messages in place of the
    buffer name.

NAMESPACE-URI namespace: An optional CHARACTER constant that specifies the URI for the namespace of the buffer
    object.

NAMESPACE-PREFIX prefix: An optional CHARACTER constant that specifies the namespace prefix associated with the
    NAMESPACE-URI.

XML-NODE-NAME node-name: An optional CHARACTER constant that specifies the name of the XML
    element representing the temp-table buffer in an XML Document. The default is buffer-name. This option is useful when:

     reading a temp-table buffer from XML with a name that contains
      invalid characters for an ABL name or is an ABL keyword, or
     writing a temp-table buffer to XML with a name that is an invalid
      XML tag name.

    Note: If you set SERIALIZE-NAME but do not set
    XML-NODE-NAME, the AVM sets XML-NODE-NAME equal to SERIALIZE-NAME.

SERIALIZE-NAME serialize-name: An optional CHARACTER constant that specifies the name of the element
    representing the temp-table buffer in an XML Document or JSON string. The default is
    buffer-name. This option is useful when:

     reading a temp-table buffer from XML or JSON with a name that
      contains invalid characters for an ABL name or is an ABL keyword, or
     writing a temp-table buffer to XML or JSON with a name that is an
      invalid XML tag name or an invalid JSON property name.

    Note: If you set both XML-NODE-NAME and SERIALIZE-NAME, the
    READ-XML() and WRITE-XML() methods will use XML-NODE-NAME.

Examples

This
procedure allows the user to create a new Customer record.
Initially, the City, State, and Country fields
are not shown. After the user enters a PostalCode value,
the procedure searches for an existing Customer with the same postal
code. If such a Customer is found, the City, State,
and Country values from that record are displayed
in the fields for the new record. The user can then update those
fields.

r-defb.p

The following gather a group of records so that
the user can enter any table name and any set of record selection
criteria and then look at the records in the table that meet those
criteria:

r-defb2.p

The r-defb2.p procedure
gets the name of a table (such as Customer) and a condition (such
as CreditLimit > 4000) and passes them as arguments to the r-defb3.p procedure:

r-defb3.p

The r-defb3.p procedure:

 Lets you view the OpenEdge Data Dictionary. The \File table contains
  a record for each of your database tables.
 Lets you look up a record for a Customer table. For example,
  the user supplies Customer as a table name; the FIND statement in
  the r-defb3.p procedure translates to FIND
  \File Customer. The FIND statement finds, in \File, the record for
  the Customer table.
 Lets you view the \Field table in the OpenEdge Data Dictionary.
  The \_Field table contains a single record for each of your database
  fields. The FOR EACH statement reads the name of each of those fields
  into the first array variable. If the table name is Customer, the
  first array variable contains the names of each of the fields in
  the Customer table.
 Lets you select records. For example, the user supplies the
  condition CreditLimit > 4000 in the table name.
  The DO PRESELECT EACH rec statement translates to DO PRESELECT EACH rec
  WHERE MaxCredit > 4000. The AVM goes through the
  Customer table and selects the records that meet the criteria. It
  creates a temp-table containing a pointer to each of those records.
  This list of preselected records is associated with the rec buffer.
 Runs r-defb4.p, passing the table name (Customer)
  and the names of all of the fields in that table.

The r-defb4.p procedure
has access to the rec buffer (and through it to the set of preselected
records). This connection is made by using PRESELECT on the DEFINE
SHARED BUFFER statement. The r-defb4.p procedure
displays those records.

r-defb4.p

Because r-defb3.p and r-defb4.p use
run-time argument passing, they cannot be precompiled. Having separate versions
of r-defb4.p for each table and running the
appropriate one in r-defb3.p, should improve
response time. This approach is worthwhile if there are many lines
of code in r-defb4.p a procedure.

If
you define a NEW SHARED BUFFER in a procedure, then call a subprocedure
that puts a record into that buffer, and display the buffer in the
main procedure, the AVM displays this message:

This message is displayed when the FIND statement
is not in the main procedure:

To avoid this, explicitly scope the Customer
record to the main procedure block. For example:

For examples of instance and static buffer data
member definitions, see the descriptions of r-CustObj.cls, r-CustObjStatic.cls,
and r-CustObjAbstract.cls in the CLASS statement reference
entry.

Notes

 You
  cannot define a SHARED or NEW SHARED buffer in a class definition
  (.cls) file. If you do, ABL generates a compilation
  error.
 A buffer can be compile-time defined (often referred to as a static buffer
  object), where the buffer is defined and created at compile time
  using this statement, or it can be run-time defined (often referred
  to as a dynamic buffer object), where the buffer is defined
  and created at run time using the CREATE BUFFER statement and buffer object handle operations. A compile-time
  defined buffer can also be defined as a static data member of a
  class. In this case, it is a static buffer object that is also a
  class static data member.
 Every statement that uses a table name to refer to the default
  buffer can also use the name of a defined alternate buffer.
 All data definitions and field names are associated with a table,
  not a buffer. Data definitions and field names remain the same no
  matter what buffer you use.
 If two buffers contain the same record, a change to one of the
  buffers is automatically reflected in the other buffer.
 You can pass a buffer as a parameter to a procedure.
 A SHARED buffer remains in scope for an instance of a persistent procedure
  until the instance is deleted. This is true even if the original procedure
  that defined the buffer as NEW SHARED goes out of scope while the
  procedure instance remains persistent.

  If a trigger or internal
  procedure of a persistent procedure executes an external subprocedure
  that defines a SHARED buffer, ABL includes the persistent procedure
  in the resolution of the corresponding NEW SHARED buffer as though
  the procedure were on the procedure call stack.
 If you define a temp-table with the same name as a database
  table and you then define a buffer for that table name, by default
  the buffer will be associated with the database table, not with
  the temp-table. Use the TEMP-TABLE option to define a buffer for
  a temp-table when the temp-table has the same name as a database
  table.
 For more information on using the built-in buffer name proc-text-buffer, see the OpenEdge DataServer Guides (Use the Microsoft SQL Data Server
  and Use the Oracle Data Server).

See also

Class-based data member access, CREATE BUFFER statement, DEFINE PARAMETER statement, RUN statement, RUN STORED-PROCEDURE statement




DEFINE QUERY statement

Defines a query that is created at compile time for use in one or more procedures, or
within a single class or class hierarchy. A query can be opened with an OPEN QUERY statement, and records can be retrieved using a GET statement, BROWSE widget, or the FILL() method on a ProDataSet object handle.

Syntax

NEW SHARED QUERY query: Defines and identifies a query to be shared with one or more procedures called
    directly or indirectly by the current procedure. The called procedures must define the
    same query name as SHARED. For shared queries, each buffer-name must
    be the name of a shared buffer. The shared buffers must be specified in the same order
    both across shared queries and in the OPEN QUERY.

SHARED QUERY query: Defines and identifies a query that was initially defined by another procedure as NEW
    SHARED. For shared queries, each buffer-name must be the name of a
    shared buffer. The shared buffers must be specified in the same order across shared
    queries and in the OPEN QUERY.

[ PRIVATE | PROTECTED ][ STATIC ] QUERY query: Defines and identifies a query as a data member of a class, and optionally specifies
    an access mode (PRIVATE or PROTECTED) and scope (instance or STATIC) for that data
    member. You cannot specify these options when defining a query as a data element of a
    method (including constructors, destructors, and property accessors) or a procedure. For
    a data member query, each buffer-name must be the name of a
    compatible data member buffer (see the FOR option).

    Note: The specified
    options are applicable only when defining a data member for a class in a class
    definition (.cls) file. Note also that you cannot shadow (override)
    the definition of a given query data member in a class hierarchy.

    PRIVATE
    query data members can be accessed by the defining class. An instance can access a
    private data member of another instance if both instances are from the same class.
    PROTECTED query data members can be accessed by the defining class and any of its
    derived classes. An instance can access a protected data member of a second instance
    that is at the same level or higher in the class hierarchy. The default access mode is
    PRIVATE. When you reference a query from another data member definition (such as a
    data-source) defined in the same class or class hierarchy, the access mode of the
    query cannot be more restrictive than the access mode of the referencing data
    member.

    A query defined with the STATIC option is a static data member of the
    class type for which it is defined and is scoped to the ABL session where it is
    referenced. ABL creates one copy of the specified class static query on first
    reference to the class type, and ABL creates only one such copy for any number of
    instances of the class that you create. You can directly reference an accessible
    static query data member from any other static or instance class member defined in the
    same class or class hierarchy.

    Without the STATIC option, ABL creates an
    instance query data member that is scoped to a single instance of the class where it
    is defined. ABL creates one copy of the specified instance query for each such class
    instance that you create. You cannot directly reference an instance query data member
    from a STATIC class member definition defined within the same class or class
    hierarchy.

    For more information on accessing queries of different access modes
    and scopes, see the reference entry for Class-based data member access.

    Note: Members of a class are grouped
    into six namespaces, including buffers/temp-tables, methods,
    variables/properties/events, ProDataSets, queries, and data-sources. Queries defined
    as members of a class share the same namespace. There can be only one class member in
    this namespace with a given name.

    For more information on where and how to
    define data members in a class, see the CLASS statement reference entry.

QUERY query: Defines and identifies a query whose records you can access only within the current
    procedure, method of a class (including constructors, destructors, and property
    accessors), or as a PRIVATE data member of a class.

FOR buffer-name[field-list][, buffer-name[field-list]]...: Specifies the buffers to be used by the query, where buffer-name is a table or alternate buffer name. For a
    shared query, each buffer-name must be a shared
    buffer. If the query is a data member of a class, you must specify the name of a
    compatible buffer. Thus, if the query is a static data member, the buffer must also be a
    static data member; if the query is PROTECTED, the buffer must also be defined as
    PROTECTED or inherited from a super class; and if the data-source is PRIVATE, the buffer
    can be defined as either PRIVATE or PROTECTED. If the query is a PRIVATE instance data
    member, you can also specify a default database table buffer; you cannot specify a
    default database buffer for a query data member defined with any other combination of
    access mode and scope.

    Note: ABL defines the default buffer
    for every database table that you access in a class as a PRIVATE instance buffer data
    member.

    If the query definition references more than one
    buffer, it defines a join.

    Once the query has been defined, you
    cannot change the buffers that it references, even if the query is closed and
    re-opened. For example, a buffer, buff1, is created for the Customer table in a DEFINE
    QUERY or OPEN QUERY for the query, qry1. The query is run and closed. You cannot now
    DEFINE or OPEN qry1 with buff1 for the item table. You can reuse buffers with CREATE
    QUERY, but you must re-run QUERY-PREPARE.

    The field-list is an optional list of fields to include or
    exclude when you open the query. Field lists allow you to retrieve only specified
    fields rather than all the fields of a record. They can improve performance over a
    network by enabling more records to fit into a single network message. This is the
    syntax for field-list:

    The FIELDS option specifies the fields you want to include
    in the query, and the EXCEPT option specifies the fields that you want to exclude from
    the query. The field parameter is the name of a
    single field in the table specified by buffer-name. If field is an array
    reference, the whole array is retrieved. Specifying FIELDS with no field references retrieves no fields. However the ROWID
    value for a specified record is available using the ROWID function. Specifying EXCEPT
    with no field references or specifying record without a field-list causes the AVM to retrieve a complete record.

    Note that the AVM ignores the FIELDS option for
    temp-tables.

    Note:

    Field lists should be used with caution because they can cause
    unexpected run-time errors. For example, it is possible that you did not include a
    field that is required by a new or revised subroutine or trigger. The result can be
    a run-time error that may be difficult to debug. A workaround is to use either the
    -fldisable or the -rereadfields client session startup parameter. This will allow your
    appplication to run (although more slowly) until the application can be fixed.

    Note the difference between -fldisable and -rereadfields. The
    Field List Disable (-fldisable) parameter causes
    the AVM to ignore all field lists and to fetch the entire
    record for every query. The Reread Fields (-rereadfields) parameter causes the AVM to fetch the
    record with the specified fields, but then re-fetch the entire record if an ABL
    statement tries to reference a field that is not there. Also note that when the
    re-fetch happens, any FIND trigger is not run
    again. For more information on these startup parameters, see Startup Command and Parameter Reference.

    This statement defines a query to retrieve only the name and
    balance fields from the Customer table:

    When you specify a field list, the AVM might retrieve
    additional fields or the complete record depending on the type of retrieval operation
    and the DataServer that provides the record. Thus, the AVM:

     Retrieves any additional fields required by the client to
      complete the record selection.
     Retrieves a complete record when the record is fetched with
      EXCLUSIVE-LOCK. This ensures proper operation of updates and the local before-image
      (BI) file. For information on the local BI file, see Manage the OpenEdge Database.
     Retrieves a complete record for DataServers that do not support
      SHARE-LOCK. For more information, see the appropriate DataServer guides (Use the Microsoft SQL Data Server and
      Use the Oracle Data Server).

    Note: Always specify fields that you plan to reference
    in the field list. Only those extra fields that the client requires for record
    selection are added to the specified field list. The AVM distributes record selection
    between the client and server depending on a number of factors that change with each
    OpenEdge release. Therefore, never rely on fields that you did not specify but which
    the AVM fetches for its own needs; they might not always be available. There is no
    additional cost to specify a field in the list that you otherwise expect the AVM to
    provide.

    This statement defines a query to retrieve all
    fields of the Customer table except the name and balance fields:

CACHE n: Specifies the number of records of the query to hold in memory for a NO-LOCK query.
    Generally, caching more records produces better browse performance when accessing a
    database across a network. However, caching consumes both memory and CPU time for buffer
    management.

    If you specify the CACHE option, the SCROLLING option is assumed. If a
    query is referenced in a DEFINE BROWSE statement, caching occurs by default. The
    default for a query involving only one table is 50 records. The default for a
    multi-table query is 30 records. If you specify CACHE 0 in the DEFINE QUERY statement,
    no caching occurs.

SCROLLING: Specifies that you can jump to a location within the list of records that satisfy the
    query by using the REPOSITION statement. If you do not use this option, you can use only
    the FIRST, NEXT, LAST, and PREV options of the GET statement to navigate within the
    list.

    The SCROLLING option can improve NETWORK performance because query NO-LOCK
    records can be prefetched with multiple records per network message. (Note that in a
    join only the lowest level records for a given set of upper level records, can be
    prefetched). The -defaultscrolling startup parameter has the same
    effect. See Startup Command and Parameter Reference
    for more information.

    Non-network queries are faster if you do not use this
    option, but you must specify it to use the REPOSITION statement. If you do not specify
    SCROLLING for non-OpenEdge databases, you can only move forward through the list of
    records using the FIRST and NEXT options of the GET statement.

RCODE-INFORMATION: Note: This option is the default behavior (thus, it has no effect). It is
    supported only for backward compatibility.

Examples

The following example defines two queries, q-salesrep and q-cust. The first is opened in
the main procedure block and is used to find all SalesRep records. The
q-cust query is used to find all Customers associated with a
SalesRep. The results of the q-cust query are displayed in a browse
widget. The q-cust query is reopened each time you find a new SalesRep.

r-defqry.p

The following example uses the RCODE-INFORMATION option of the DEFINE QUERY statement to
extract index information from a compile-time defined query. If you run the example with the
RCODE-INFORMATION option commented out, the AVM reports a run-time error.

r-rcdinf.p

Notes

 You cannot define a SHARED or NEW SHARED query in a class definition
  (.cls) file. If you do, ABL generates a compilation error.
 A query can be compile-time defined (often referred to as a static query
  object), where the query is defined and created at compile time using this statement, or
  it can be run-time defined (often referred to as a dynamic query object),
  where the query is defined and created at run time using the CREATE QUERY statement and query object handle operations. A
  compile-time defined query can also be defined as a static data member of a class. In this
  case, it is a static query object that is also a class static data member.
 After you define a query, you must open it with the OPEN QUERY statement before you can
  fetch any records.
 A SHARED query remains in scope for an instance of a persistent procedure until the
  instance is deleted. This is true even if the original procedure that defined the query as
  NEW SHARED goes out of scope while the procedure instance remains persistent.

  If a
  trigger or internal procedure of a persistent procedure executes an external
  subprocedure that defines a SHARED query, ABL includes the persistent procedure in the
  resolution of the corresponding NEW SHARED query as though the procedure were on the
  procedure call stack.
 Unlike with block record retrieval operations that include record updates and deletes
  (FOR EACH, etc.), field lists generally enhance query performance even for queries whose
  rows you plan to update. Queries generate complete result lists, with or without field
  lists, before any updates to individual rows are applied.
 You cannot specify field lists in an OPEN QUERY statement.
 In a shared query, the shared buffers must be specified in the same order across all the
  shared queries and in the OPEN QUERY statement.
• A ProDataSet data-relation defined with REPOSITION or SELECTION is overridden if a query
  is defined for a child relation data-source. Normally, if REPOSITION is not specified, the
  child query selects the children of the parent. But coding a query for the child
  data-source overrides whether or not a SELECTION or REPOSITION relation mode was
  defined.

See also

Class-based data member access, CLOSE QUERY statement, CREATE QUERY statement, CURRENT-RESULT-ROW function, DEFINE BROWSE statement, DEFINE DATASET statement, GET statement, NUM-RESULTS function, OPEN QUERY statement, REPOSITION statement, RUN statement




DELETE ALIAS statement

Deletes an alias from the alias table.

Syntax

alias: An existing alias. It can be an unquoted string or a quoted string.

VALUE (expression): A character-string expression that evaluates to an existing alias.

Example

This procedure deletes the alias myalias from the alias table:

r-dalias.p

Notes

 If a precompiled program requires an alias and you delete that alias, the program will
  not run.
 If you try to delete a nonexistent alias, nothing happens.

See also

ALIAS function, CONNECT statement, CONNECTED function, CREATE ALIAS statement, CREATE CALL statement, DATASERVERS function, DBCODEPAGE function, DBCOLLATION function, DBRESTRICTIONS function, DBTYPE function, DBVERSION function, DISCONNECT statement, FRAME-DB function, LDBNAME function, NUM-DBS function, PDBNAME function, SDBNAME function




DELETE statement

Removes a record from a record buffer and from the database.

Data movement

Syntax

record: The name of a record buffer. You can delete a record only after it has
    been put into a record buffer by a CREATE, FIND, FOR EACH, or INSERT statement.

    If you define an
    alternate buffer for a table, you can delete a record from that buffer by using the
    name of the buffer with the DELETE statement.

    To delete a record in a table defined for multiple databases, you must
    qualify the record's table name with the database name. See the record definition in the Record phrase reference entry for more
    information.

VALIDATE (condition, msg-expression): Use the VALIDATE option to specify a logical value
    that allows the deletion of a record when TRUE, but does not allow the deletion of a
    record when FALSE.

    The condition is
    a Boolean expression (a constant, field name, variable name, or expression) with a
    value of TRUE or FALSE.

    The msg-expression is the message you want to display if the condition is FALSE. You must enclose msg-expression in quotation marks ("").

    You can also describe delete validation criteria for a table in the
    Data Dictionary. To suppress the Data Dictionary delete validation criteria for a
    table, use the VALIDATE option as follows:

    If you use the DELETE statement to delete a
    record in a work table, the AVM disregards any VALIDATE option you
    use with the DELETE statement.

NO-ERROR: The NO-ERROR option is used to prevent the statement from raising ERROR
    and displaying error messages.

Examples

The r-delet.p procedure deletes all the records in the Customer
table.

r-delet.p

The r-delet2.p procedure prompts the user for a Customer number and
then displays the name of that Customer. It then prompts the user to press y to confirm the
deletion of the Customer record. The user's response is stored in the del variable. If the
value of the del variable is y, the procedure deletes the Customer record.

r-delet2.p

The r-delval.p procedure prompts the
user for a Customer number. The procedure displays the name of the Customer and prompts the
user: Do you want to delete this Customer? If the user answers no, the procedure prompts the
user for another Customer number. If the user answers yes, the procedure checks whether the
Customer has orders, using the VALIDATE option. If they do have orders, the
procedure displays this message: This Customer has outstanding orders and cannot be deleted.
If the Customer has no orders, the procedure deletes the Customer.

r-delval.p

Notes

 When you run procedures that delete large numbers of records (for
  example, a month-end table purge), the process runs much faster if you use the No Crash
  Protection (-i) parameter in single-user mode. (You must back up your database before
  using this option.) See Startup Command and Parameter
  Reference for more information on startup parameters.
 Deleting records does not change the amount of space the database takes up on the disk.
  The AVM re-uses ROWIDs. It does not delete the ROWID when a record is deleted. To recover
  disk space, you must dump and reload your database.
 The DELETE statement causes any related database DELETE
  triggers to execute. All DELETE triggers execute before the AVM actually deletes the
  record. While a DELETE trigger is executing, all FIND requests for the
  record (even within the trigger) fail, as if the record were already deleted. If a DELETE
  trigger fails (or executes a RETURN ERROR statement), the corresponding record is not
  deleted.
 If a table has both a DELETE trigger and delete VALIDATION, the DELETE trigger executes
  before the validation is performed.
• If you have previously retrieved record with a field list, the DELETE statement rereads the
  complete record before deleting it.

See also

CREATE statement, FIND statement, FOR statement, INSERT statement, NO-ERROR option




DISABLE TRIGGERS statement

Disables database triggers before you perform
a dump or load procedure. You must have CAN-DUMP and CAN-LOAD permissions on
the table for which you want to disable the triggers.

Syntax

DUMP: Disabling triggers for DUMP disables the trigger associated
    with the FIND event for the named table.

LOAD: Disabling triggers for LOAD disables all triggers associated with the
    CREATE, WRITE, DELETE, REPLICATION-CREATE, REPLICATION-WRITE, REPLICATION-DELETE, and
    ASSIGN events for the named table.

table-name: The name of the table for which you want to disable the triggers.
    You can name only one table.

ALLOW-REPLICATION: Tells DISABLE TRIGGERS to disable only CREATE, ASSIGN, and WRITE
    triggers, and not REPLICATION-CREATE, REPLICATION-DELETE, and REPLICATION-WRITE
    triggers. The DELETE trigger is not disabled.

    For more information on
    database replication, see the reference entry for the RAW-TRANSFER statement, and Manage the OpenEdge Database.

Example

The
following example lets you dump or load the contents of a database table.
The procedure uses the DISABLE TRIGGERS statement to disable the appropriate
triggers before each dump or load operation.

r-dstrig.p

Notes

 Triggers disabled with the DISABLE TRIGGERS statement remain disabled
  for the duration of the procedure in which you issued the statement
  and any subprocedures.
 The OpenEdge Data Dictionary automatically disables the appropriate
  triggers during data dump and load operations.
• The Disable Delete Trigger (-disabledeltrig) startup parameter disables the DELETE trigger when
  ALLOW-REPLICATION is on for the DISABLE TRIGGERS statement or the DISABLE-LOAD-TRIGGER()
  buffer method. For more information about this parameter, see Startup Command and Parameter Reference.

See also

ON statement, TRIGGER PROCEDURE statement




DISCONNECT statement

Disconnects the specified database.

Syntax

logical-name: A logical database name. It can be an unquoted string or a quoted
    string. The logical-name is previously set, at
    startup or with a CONNECT statement, by using the Logical Database Name
    (-ld) parameter. If a logical name was not specified
    using the -ld parameter, then the physical database
    filename, without the.db suffix, is the default logical name.

VALUE (expression): A character-string expression that evaluates to a logical database name.

NO-ERROR: The NO-ERROR option is used to prevent the statement from raising ERROR and displaying error messages.

Example

This
procedure disconnects the database with logical name mydb:

r-discnt.p

Notes

 By default, the AVM disconnects all databases at the end of a session.
  The DISCONNECT statement, which explicitly disconnects a database, does
  not execute until all active procedures that reference the database end or stop.
 If a transaction is active for logical-name, DISCONNECT is deferred until the transaction
  completes or is undone. If a CONNECT statement for the same logical-name database is executed before the same transaction
  completes or is undone, then the pending CONNECT and
  DISCONNECT cancel each other and the database remains connected.
• When the database referred to by logical-name is
  disconnected, existing aliases for logical-name remain
  in existence. Later, if you connect to a database with the same logical-name, the
  same alias is still available.

See also

ALIAS function, CONNECT statement, CONNECTED function, CREATE ALIAS statement, CREATE CALL statement, DATASERVERS function, DBCODEPAGE function, DBCOLLATION function, DBRESTRICTIONS function, DBTYPE function, DBVERSION function, DELETE ALIAS statement, FRAME-DB function, NO-ERROR option, LDBNAME function, PDBNAME function, SDBNAME function




DYNAMIC-CURRENT-VALUE function

Returns the current INT64 value of a sequence
defined in the specified database.

Syntax

sequence-expression: A character expression that evaluates to the name of a sequence.

logical-dbname-expression: A character expression that evaluates to the name of a connected database
    in which the sequence is defined.

tenant-id: An integer expression that evaluates to the tenant ID of a regular tenant,
    including the default tenant (0). This option applies
    only to a multi-tenant sequence specified by sequence-expression and
    is intended for access primarily by a super-tenant user.: If you are a regular-tenant user and you specify tenant-id, the
    specified tenant must be the same as the tenant associated with the database
    connection identity for logical-dbname-expression or the AVM raises
    a run-time error.

    If you are a super-tenant user and you do not specify tenant-id,
    the function assumes the effective tenant ID (GET-EFFECTIVE-TENANT-ID function).

    If the sequence specified by sequence-expression is
    non-multi-tenant (a shared sequence in a multi-tenant database), and you specify
    tenant-id, the option is ignored.

Notes

 If logical-dbname-expression contains the Unknown value
  (?), the AVM generates a run-time error.
 The user must have CAN-READ privileges on the \_Sequence table to use the
  DYNAMIC-CURRENT-VALUE function.
 The current value of a sequence can be one of the following:
• The initial value specified in the Data Dictionary.
• The last value set with either the DYNAMIC-CURRENT-VALUE statement or the
    DYNAMIC-NEXT-VALUE function.
• The Unknown value (?) if the sequence has exceeded its minimum or
    maximum and is not cycling.
 If sequence-expression is a
  multi-tenant sequence in the database, each regular tenant has their own current value of
  the sequence. So, the same values are returned for each tenant that invokes this function.
  If the sequence is shared in a multi-tenant database, the values returned by this function
  are unique across all tenants in the database.

  CAUTION: Be very
  careful using multi-tenant sequences when you are updating shared tables or multi-tenant
  tables for a tenant group. For more information, see the topics on using
  multi-tenant-enabled sequences in OpenEdge Programming
  Interfaces.
 Sequence values are stored in the database in which they are defined, and persist
  between each invocation of the DYNAMIC-CURRENT-VALUE statement or DYNAMIC-NEXT-VALUE
  function.
 You cannot invoke the DYNAMIC-CURRENT-VALUE function from within a WHERE clause. Doing
  so generates a compiler error. To use a result from the DYNAMIC-CURRENT-VALUE function in
  a WHERE clause, assign the result to a variable, then use the variable in the WHERE
  clause.
• You can use any combination of the DYNAMIC-NEXT-VALUE function, DYNAMIC-CURRENT-VALUE
  function, DYNAMIC-CURRENT-VALUE statement, and their non-dynamic versions.

See also

CURRENT-VALUE function, DYNAMIC-CURRENT-VALUE statement, DYNAMIC-CURRENT-VALUE statement, DYNAMIC-NEXT-VALUE function, NEXT-VALUE function




DYNAMIC-CURRENT-VALUE statement

Resets the current integer value of a sequence
defined in the specified database.

Syntax

sequence-exp: A character expression that evaluates to the name of a sequence.

logical-dbname-exp: A character expression that evaluates to the name of a connected database
    in which the sequence is defined.

tenant-id: An integer expression that evaluates to the tenant ID of a regular tenant,
    including the default tenant (0). This option applies
    only to a multi-tenant sequence specified by sequence-expression and
    is intended for access primarily by a super-tenant user.

    If you
    are a regular-tenant user and you specify tenant-id,
    the specified tenant must be the same as the tenant associated with
    the database connection identity for logical-dbname-expression or
    the AVM raises a run-time error.

    If you are a super-tenant
    user and you do not specify tenant-id, the function
    assumes the effective tenant ID (GET-EFFECTIVE-TENANT-ID function).

    If the sequence specified by sequence-expression is
    non-multi-tenant (a shared sequence in a multi-tenant database),
    and you specify tenant-id, the option is ignored.

expression: An integer expression assigned as the current value of the specified sequence.
    If expression is outside the boundary set by
    the initial value (at one end) and the lower limit or upper limit
    (at the other end) for the sequence, the AVM returns an error, and
    the sequence value remains unchanged.

Note: Compound assignment operators (+=, -=, =, /=) can be used with the DYNAMIC-CURRENT-VALUE statement. For more information, see += Addition assignment operator, -= Subtraction assignment operator, \= Multiplication assignment operator, and /= Division assignment operator.

Notes

 If logical-dbname-exp contains
  the Unknown value (?), the AVM generates a run-time error.
 You cannot set a sequence to the Unknown value (?).
 If sequence-exp is a multi-tenant
  sequence in the database, each regular tenant has their own current value of the sequence.
  So, each tenant that invokes this statement can set their own current values, which can be
  the same or different than the current values set by other tenants. If the sequence is
  shared in a multi-tenant database, any current value set by this statement is shared by
  all tenants in the database.

  CAUTION: Be very careful using
  multi-tenant sequences when you are updating shared tables or multi-tenant tables for a
  tenant group. For more information, see the topics on using multi-tenant-enabled
  sequences in OpenEdge Programming Interfaces.
 The user must have CAN-WRITE privileges on the \_Sequence table to use the
  DYNAMIC-CURRENT-VALUE statement.
 The value of a sequence set by the DYNAMIC-CURRENT-VALUE statement persists in the
  database until the next DYNAMIC-CURRENT-VALUE statement or DYNAMIC-NEXT-VALUE function
  is invoked for the sequence, or until the sequence is deleted from the database.
 You can use any combination of the DYNAMIC-NEXT-VALUE function,
  DYNAMIC-CURRENT-VALUE function, DYNAMIC-CURRENT-VALUE statement, and their non-dynamic
  versions.

See also

CURRENT-VALUE function,, DYNAMIC-CURRENT-VALUE function, DYNAMIC-NEXT-VALUE function, NEXT-VALUE function




DYNAMIC-NEXT-VALUE function

Returns the next INT64 value of a sequence,
incremented by the positive or negative value defined in the specified
database.

Syntax

sequence-expression: A character expression that evaluates to the name of a sequence.

logical-dbname-expression: A character expression that evaluates to the name of a connected database
    in which the sequence is defined.

tenant-id: An integer expression that evaluates to the tenant ID of a regular tenant,
    including the default tenant (0). This option applies
    only to a multi-tenant sequence specified by sequence-expression and
    is intended for access primarily by a super-tenant user.

    If you
    are a regular-tenant user and you specify tenant-id,
    the specified tenant must be the same as the tenant associated with
    the database connection identity for logical-dbname-expression or
    the AVM raises a run-time error.

    If you are a super-tenant
    user and you do not specify tenant-id, the function
    assumes the effective tenant ID (GET-EFFECTIVE-TENANT-ID function).

    If the sequence specified by sequence-expression is
    non-multi-tenant (a shared sequence in a multi-tenant database),
    and you specify tenant-id, the option is ignored.

Notes

 If logical-dbname-expression contains
  the Unknown value (?), the AVM raises a run-time error.
 If sequence-expression is a cycling sequence, and
  the DYNAMIC-NEXT-VALUE function increments the sequence beyond its
  upper limit (for positive increments) or decrements the sequence
  beyond its lower limit (for negative increments), the function sets
  and returns the initial value defined for the sequence.
 If sequence-expression is a terminating sequence,
  and the DYNAMIC-NEXT-VALUE function attempts to increment the sequence
  beyond its upper limit (for positive increments) or decrement the
  sequence beyond its lower limit (for negative increments), the function
  returns the Unknown value (?) and leaves the current sequence
  value unchanged. Once a sequence terminates, DYNAMIC-NEXT-VALUE
  continues to return the Unknown value (?) for the specified
  sequence until it is reset to a new value with the DYNAMIC-CURRENT-VALUE statement,
  or its definition is changed to a cycling sequence. After changing
  the sequence definition to cycle, the first use of DYNAMIC-NEXT-VALUE
  for the sequence sets and returns its initial value.
 If sequence-expression is a
  multi-tenant sequence in the database, each regular tenant has their own current value of
  the sequence. So, the same values are returned for each tenant that invokes this function.
  If the sequence is shared in a multi-tenant database, the values returned by this function
  are unique across all tenants in the database.

  CAUTION: Be very
  careful using multi-tenant sequences when you are updating shared tables or multi-tenant
  tables for a tenant group. For more information, see the sections on using
  multi-tenant-enabled sequences in OpenEdge Programming
  Interfaces.
 The value of a sequence set by the DYNAMIC-NEXT-VALUE function persists in the
  database until the next DYNAMIC-CURRENT-VALUE statement or DYNAMIC-NEXT-VALUE function
  is invoked for the sequence, or until the sequence is deleted from the database.
 You cannot invoke the DYNAMIC-NEXT-VALUE function from within a WHERE clause. Doing
  so generates a compiler error because the value returned by the DYNAMIC-NEXT-VALUE
  function can result in ambiguous expressions. To use a result from the
  DYNAMIC-NEXT-VALUE function in a WHERE clause, assign the result to a variable and use
  the variable in the WHERE clause instead.
• You can use any combination of the DYNAMIC-NEXT-VALUE function,
  DYNAMIC-CURRENT-VALUE function, DYNAMIC-CURRENT-VALUE statement, and their non-dynamic
  versions.

See also

CURRENT-VALUE function, DYNAMIC-CURRENT-VALUE statement, DYNAMIC-CURRENT-VALUE function, DYNAMIC-CURRENT-VALUE statement, NEXT-VALUE function




FIND statement

Locates a single record in a table and moves that record into a record buffer.

Data movement

Syntax

You can specify the OF, WHERE,
USE-INDEX, and USING options in any order.

FIRST: Finds the first record in the table that meets the characteristics
    you might have specified with record. If the buffer
    named in the record was preselected in a
    DO or REPEAT statement, FIND
    locates the first record in that preselected subset of records.

LAST: Finds the last record in the table that meets the specified
    characteristics of the record. If the buffer named
    in the record was preselected in a
    DO or REPEAT statement, FIND
    locates the last record in that preselected subset of records.

NEXT: Finds the next record in the table that meets the specified
    characteristics of the record. If no record has been
    found, the buffer contents specified by record are
    unknown, with a ROWID equal to the Unknown value (?).
    If the buffer named in the record was preselected in
    a DO or REPEAT statement, FIND
    locates the next record in that preselected subset of records.

PREV: Finds the previous record in the table. If no record has been found,
    the buffer contents specified by record are unknown,
    with a ROWID equal to the Unknown value (?). If the
    buffer named in the record was preselected in a
    DO or REPEAT statement, FIND
    locates the previous record in that preselected subset of records.

CURRENT: Refetches the current record in the buffer with the specified
    lock status.

record: Identifies the record you want to retrieve. The record parameter
    can be a reference to a database table or a defined buffer.

constant: The value of a single component, unique, primary index for the record
    you want.

    ABL converts this FIND statement with the
    constant option of 1.

    The CustNum field is the
    only component of the primary index of the Customer table. If you use the constant option, you must use it once in a single Record
    phrase, and it must precede any other options in the Record phrase.

OF table: Qualifies the records by relating the record to a record in another
    table.

    The OF option relates the order table to
    the Customer table, telling the AVM to select the Customer record related to the Order
    record currently being used. When you use OF, all fields participate
    in match criteria, if an index is multi-field. The relationship is based on having a
    UNIQUE index in one table. ABL converts the FIND statement with the
    OF option to the following:

    You can access related tables using WHERE,
    whether or not the field names of the field or fields that relate the tables have the
    same name.

WHERE expression: Qualifies the records you want to access. The expression is a constant, field name, variable name, or
    expression whose value you want to use to select records. You can use the WHERE keyword even if you do not supply an expression. 

    The WHERE clause may not
    work the same way against a DataServer as it does against the OpenEdge database. Refer
    to the appropriate DataServer Guide (Use the Microsoft SQL Data
    Server or Use the Oracle Data Server) for
    additional information on how this feature will perform.

    Note: You cannot reference an OpenEdge BLOB or CLOB field in a WHERE clause. However, in OpenEdge DataServer for MS SQL
    Server, a non-legacy BLOB or CLOB server data type can be mapped to the OpenEdge
    CHARACTER data type in a WHERE clause operand as long as the total size of the
    resolved WHERE clause (which might include the
    CHARACTER-mapped value) does not exceed 30000 bytes.

USE-INDEX index: Identifies the index you want to use while selecting records. If you
    do not use this option, the AVM selects an index to use based on the criteria specified
    with the WHERE, USING, OF, or
    constant options.

USING [ FRAME frame ] field [ AND [ FRAME frame ] field ]...: One or more names of fields for selecting records. The field you name
    in this option must have been entered previously, usually with a
    PROMPT-FOR statement. The field must be viewed as a fill-in or text
    widget.

    The USING option translates into an
    equivalent WHERE option.

    This FIND statement is the same as the
    following statement:

    The CustNum field is a
    non-abbreviated index. However, consider this example:

    If the name field is an abbreviated index of the Customer
    table, ABL converts the FIND statement with the
    USING option into this following statement:

    Note that field can be expanded to be FRAME
    framefield.

SHARE-LOCK: Tells the AVM to put a SHARE-LOCK on records as they
    are read. Other users can still read a record that is share locked, but they cannot
    update it. By default, the AVM puts a SHARE-LOCK on a record when it is
    read, and automatically puts an EXCLUSIVE-LOCK on a record when it is
    modified (unless the record is already EXCLUSIVE-LOCKed).

    If you use the SHARE-LOCK option and the AVM tries
    to read a record that is EXCLUSIVE-LOCKed by another user, the AVM
    waits to read the record until the EXCLUSIVE-LOCK is released. The
    AVM displays a message to the user of that procedure, identifying the table that is in
    use, the user ID of the user, and the tty of the terminal using the table.

    If you are using a record from a work table, the AVM disregards the
    SHARE-LOCK option.

EXCLUSIVE-LOCK: Tells the AVM to put an EXCLUSIVE-LOCK on records as
    they are read. Other users cannot read or update a record that is
    EXCLUSIVE-LOCKed, except by using the NO-LOCK
    option. They can access that record only when the EXCLUSIVE-LOCK is
    released. The AVM automatically puts a SHARE-LOCK on a record when it
    is read and automatically puts an EXCLUSIVE-LOCK on a record when it is
    updated.

    If a record is read specifying
    EXCLUSIVE-LOCK, or if a lock is automatically changed to
    EXCLUSIVE-LOCK by an update, a user's read or update will wait if
    any other user has the record SHARE-LOCKed or
    EXCLUSIVE-LOCKed.

    When a procedure tries to
    use a record that is EXCLUSIVE-LOCKed by another user, the AVM
    displays a message identifying the table that is in use, the user ID of the user, and
    the tty of the terminal using the table.

    If you are using a
    record from a work table, the AVM disregards the EXCLUSIVE-LOCK
    option.

NO-LOCK: Tells the AVM to put no locks on records as they are read, and to
    read a record even if another user has it EXCLUSIVE-LOCKed.

    Other users can read and update a record that is not locked. By
    default, the AVM puts a SHARE-LOCK on a record when it is read
    (unless it is using a CAN-FIND function, which defaults to
    NO-LOCK), and automatically puts an EXCLUSIVE-LOCK
    on a record when it is updated (unless the record is already
    EXCLUSIVE-LOCKed). A record that has been read
    NO-LOCK must be reread before it can be updated, as shown in this
    example:

    If a procedure finds a record and it places it in a buffer
    using NO-LOCK and you then re-find that record using
    NO-LOCK, the AVM does not reread the record. Instead, it uses the
    copy of the record that is already stored in the buffer.

    When
    you read records with NO-LOCK, you have no guarantee
    of the overall consistency of those records because another user might be in the
    process of changing them. For example, when a record is updated, changes to indexed
    fields are written immediately, but changes to other fields are deferred. In the
    meantime, the record is in an inconsistent state. For example, the following procedure
    might display a CustNum of 0 if another user's
    active transaction has created a record and assigned a value to the indexed field
    CustNum that is greater than 100:

    If you are using a record from a work table, the AVM
    disregards the NO-LOCK option.

NO-WAIT: Causes FIND to return immediately and raise an error
    condition if the record is locked by another user (unless you use the
    NO-ERROR option on the same FIND statement). For
    example:

    Without the NO-WAIT option, the AVM waits
    until the record is available.

    The AVM ignores
    NO-WAIT when it is used with work tables and databases that are
    only accessed by a single user.

NO-PREFETCH: Specifies that only one record is sent across the network at a time.
    If you are accessing a remote server and do not specify this option, the AVM might send
    more than one record from the server to the client in each network packet.

NO-ERROR: The NO-ERROR option is used to prevent the statement from raising ERROR and displaying error messages.

    For
    the FIND statement with NO-ERROR, you can use the
    AVAILABLE function to test if FIND found a
    record.

Examples

This
procedure produces a report that shows all the customers who bought a
particular item, and the quantity that they bought. The procedure
finds an item record, the order-lines that use that item, the order
associated with each order-line, and the customer associated with
each order.

r-find.p

The FIND FIRST statement in the following procedure finds
the first record with a name field value that alphabetically follows the name supplied by
the user. The FIND NEXT statement uses the name index to find the next
record in the table, using the name index.

r-find2.p

Notes

 If a FIND statement fails, it indicates that the
  buffer named in record contains no record.
 If the AVM finds an old record in the record buffer when executing a
  FIND, it validates the record then writes it out. (If the record fails
  validation, the AVM returns an error message.) Then it clears the buffer and stores the
  located record in the record buffer.
 A FIND statement that does not supply
  FIRST, LAST, NEXT, or
  PREV is a unique FIND and must be able to locate, at
  most, one record based solely on the conditions in the expression or
  WHERE clause it is using.
 Fields referenced in the WHERE clause do not have to
  be indexed.
 WHERE conditions can include Boolean operations.
 Use caution when using conversion functions like
  STRING and DATE in WHERE expressions.
  If, for example, the -d startup parameter is used differently on the client and server
  sides, any conversion performed by DATE could cause different results
  depending on the settings.
 If a FIND NEXT or FIND PREV does not
  find another record, the AVM takes the end-key action. By default, this action is
  UNDO, LEAVE for a FOR EACH, REPEAT,
  or procedure block.
 See the DEFINE BUFFER statement reference entry for a description of how to use FIND
  on a PRESELECTed set of records.
 When you use the FIND statement, the AVM selects an
  index to use based on the WHERE condition or the
  USE-INDEX option.
 Your position in an index is established when you find a record and is
  only modified by subsequent record retrievals, not by CREATEs or by
  changing indexed field values. After a failed FIND, you cannot be certain
  of the cursor position.
 If you are using the FIND statement to find a record
  in a work table, you must use the FIRST, LAST,
  NEXT, or PREV option with the FIND
  statement.
 In a REPEAT block, if you use the FIND
  NEXT statement to find a record and then do an UNDO, RETRY of
  a block, the FIND NEXT statement reads the next record in the table,
  rather than the one found in the block iteration where the error occurred:

  The AVM does an UNDO, RETRY if there is an
  error and you explicitly use the UNDO, RETRY statement, or if you press
  END-ERROR on the second or later
  windows interaction in a block.

  Here, if you press END-ERROR during the second
  SET statement, the AVM displays the next record in the table.

  If you are using a FOR EACH block to read records, and
  do an UNDO, RETRY during the block, you see the same record again
  rather than the next record.

  If you want to use a
  REPEAT block and want to see the same record in the event of an
  error, use the RETRY function:

 When you use FIND NEXT or FIND PREV
  to find a record after updating another record, be careful not to lose your updates in
  case the record you want to find is unavailable.

  In this example, if the FIND NEXT statement
  fails to find the customer record, any changes made during the UPDATE
  statement are undone. To avoid this, use the following technique:

 After you use the FIND LAST statement to find the last
  record in a table, the AVM positions the index cursor on that record. Any references
  within the same record scope to the next record fail. For example:

  In this example, the RELEASE statement
  releases the last Customer record from the Customer record buffer and the following
  DISPLAY statement displays FALSE because the Customer record is no
  longer available. However, the index cursor is still positioned on that last record.
  Therefore, the FIND NEXT statement fails.
 If you use FIND... WHERE ROWID
  rowid =... on a PRESELECTed list
  of records, the temporary preselect index cursor is not reset. So, FIND
  NEXT does not find the record that follows record rowid in the preselected list. (See the DO statement and REPEAT statement reference entries for
  details.)
 When you use a FIND NEXT or FIND PREV
  statement in a subprocedure to access a record from a shared buffer, remember the following:
• When you run an ABL procedure, the AVM creates a cursor indicator for each index accessed through a
    FIND statement in the procedure and each NEW buffer defined in the
    procedure. A cursor indicator serves as an anchor for index cursors associated with a
    table or buffer. An index cursor is attached to the cursor indicator when you enter a
    block of code where a record buffer is scoped. If two different indexes are used for
    the same record buffer within a single block of code, two index cursors are attached
    to the same cursor indicator. When the program control leaves the block where a record
    buffer is scoped, all index cursors attached to the cursor indicator are
    released.
• When the AVM encounters a subprocedure in a procedure, it constant,
    field name, variable name, or checks through the existing index cursors before
    creating any other index cursors required by the statements in the subprocedure.
• If the USE-INDEX of the FIND NEXT
    or FIND PREV statement in a subprocedure accesses an index cursor for
    a shared buffer that existed prior to the beginning of the subprocedure, the
    FIND NEXT or FIND PREV statement returns the next
    or previous record for the shared buffer, based upon the last record found in that
    buffer and the USE-INDEX of the FIND statement.
• If the USE-INDEX of the FIND NEXT
    or FIND PREV statement in a subprocedure accesses an index cursor
    created for a shared buffer at the beginning of the subprocedure, the FIND
    NEXT or FIND PREV statement returns the first or last
    record for the shared buffer, based upon the USE-INDEX of the
    FIND statement.
 If a field or variable referenced with FIND is used in
  more than one frame, then the AVM uses the value in the frame most recently introduced in
  the procedure. To make sure you are using the appropriate frame, use the
  FRAME option with the FIND function to reference a
  particular frame.
 When a FIND statement executes, any
  FIND trigger defined for the table is executed.
 The FIND CURRENT statement is useful for maintaining
  small transaction size in updates. For an example, see the CURRENT-CHANGED function reference entry.
 FIND triggers do not execute for a FIND
  CURRENT statement.
 ABL does not allow a FIND statement within a
  FOR EACH block unless you specify a different table than the one
  referenced in the FOR EACH block. When you attempt to compile the
  following example, ABL returns the error message "FIND cannot be processed for a
  FOR EACH mode record":

 ABL restricts the FIND statement within a
  PRESELECT block in the following situations:
• You cannot specify a lock option on the FIND
    statement. You must specify it in the PRESELECT phrase. Attempting to
    compile the following example produces the error message "LOCK keyword illegal on FIND
    within a PRESELECT for the same table":
• You cannot specify a unique FIND or a

    _

    FIND CURRENT

    for the same table. The following example produces
    the error message "Unique FIND not allowed within a PRESELECT on the same table" when
    you try to compile it:

See also

AMBIGUOUS function, AVAILABLE function, CAN-FIND function, CURRENT-CHANGED function, DEFINE BUFFER statement, ERROR-STATUS system handle, FOR statement,GET statement, LOCKED function, NEW function (record buffers), NO-ERROR option, PRESELECT phrase




FIRST-OF function

Returns a TRUE value if the current iteration
of a DO, FOR EACH, or REPEAT... BREAK block is the first iteration
for a new break group, and modifies all three block types.

Syntax

break-group: The name of a field or expression you name in the block header
    with the BREAK BY option.

Example

This
procedure generates a report that lists all the item records grouped
by catalog page. When the CatPage value changes,
the procedure clears the current list of items and displays items
belonging to the new catalog page. The FIRST-OF function uses the
value of the CatPage field to determine when that
value is different from the value during the last iteration.

r-firstf.p

Note

When you
calculate in a block use the BREAK option to tell the AVM to calculate
when the value of certain expressions changes. The AVM uses default formatting
to display the results of these calculations. To control the formatting, use
the FIRST-OF function to determine the start of a break group and
then change the formatting.

See also

DO statement, FIRST function, FOR statement, LAST function, LAST-OF function, REPEAT statement




FIRST function

Returns a TRUE value if the current iteration
of a DO, FOR EACH, or REPEAT... BREAK block is the first iteration
of that block.

Syntax

break-group: The name of a field or expression you name in the block header
    with the BREAK BY option.

Example

The r-first.p procedure
displays the order number, OrderLines on the Order, the extended
price of each OrderLine, and a total order value for each Order
record:

r-first.p

Because the inner FOR EACH block iterates until
the AVM reads all the order-lines, the procedure must set the order-value
variable to 0 each time a new order is used in that block. The FIRST
function uses the (qty * price) expression as the break-group to
keep track of whether or not the current iteration is the first
iteration of the FOR EACH block.

See also

DO statement, FIRST-OF function, FOR statement, LAST function, LAST-OF function, REPEAT statement




FOR statement

Starts an iterating block that reads a record from each of one or more
tables at the start of each block iteration. Use an END statement to end a
FOR block.

Data movement

Syntax

This is the syntax for the FOR
block:

EACH: Starts an iterating block, finding a single record on each iteration.
    If you do not use the EACH keyword, the
    record-phrase you use must identify exactly one record in the
    table.

FIRST: Uses the criteria in the record-phrase to find the first record in the table that meets that
    criteria. Note that the AVM finds the first record before any sorting. Therefore a
    BY option, if specified, would have no effect on
    the record returned.

    Note: The state of the buffer outside of the FOR FIRST loop is
    undefined and records may or may not be available. Any code that depends on the buffer
    state should be moved into the FOR FIRST loop.

LAST: Uses the criteria in the record-phrase to find the last record in the table that meets that
    criteria. Note that the AVM finds the last record before any sorting. Therefore a
    BY option, if specified, would have no effect on
    the record returned.

record-phrase: Identifies the set of records you want to retrieve. This can also be
    the built-in buffer name, proc-text-buffer, that you
    can use to return table rows from a stored procedure.

    To use FOR EACH/FIRST/LAST to access a record in a
    table defined for multiple databases, you must qualify the record's table name with
    the database name.

    This is the syntax for record-phrase:

    Specifying multiple occurrences of record-phrase selects the
    tables using an inner join.

    For more information on record-phrase and inner joins, see Record phrase.

query-tuning-phrase: Allows programmatic control over the execution of a DataServer
    query. This is the syntax for the query-tuning-phrase:

    For more information on the query-tuning-phrase, refer to the appropriate DataServer Guide (Use the Oracle Data Server or Use the
    Microsoft SQL Data Server).

BREAK: Over a series of block iterations, you might want to do some work
    based on whether the value of a certain field changes. This field defines a break
    group. For example, you might be accumulating some value, such as a total. You use the
    BREAK option to define State as
    the break group. For example:

    Here, the AVM accumulates the total CreditLimit for
    all the customers in the Customer table. Each time the value of
    the State field changes, the AVM displays a subtotal
    of the CreditLimit values for customers in that
    state.

    You can use the BREAK option anywhere in the block
    header, but you must also use the BY option to name a sort field.

    You can use the BREAK option in conjunction with
    the ACCUMULATE statement and ACCUM function. For more information,
    see the reference entries for those language elements.

    The BREAK option is intended for forward-only and read-only
    processing. Updating, deleting, and inserting records or repositioning using the
    FIND statement can cause unpredictable results.

BY expression[ DESCENDING ]: Sorts the selected records by the value of expression. If you do not use the BY option, the AVM
    retrieves records in the order of the index used to satisfy the record-phrase criteria, or the primary index if no
    criteria is given. The DESCENDING option sorts the records in
    descending order (not in the default ascending order).

    Note: You cannot reference a BLOB or CLOB
    field in the BY option.

    You can use multiple BY options to do multi-level
    sorting. For example:

    Here, the Customers are sorted in order by CreditLimit.
    Within each CreditLimit value, Customers are sorted
    alphabetically by Name.

    There is a performance benefit if an index on
    expression exists: BREAK BY does not have to
    perform the sort that is otherwise required to evaluate FIRST,
    LAST, FIRST-OF, and LAST-OF
    expressions.

    Note that in a FOR FIRST/LAST statement, the AVM finds the
    first/last record before any sorting, therefore a BY option, if
    specified, would have no effect on the record returned.

COLLATE (string, strength[, collation]) [ DESCENDING ]: Generates the collation value of a string after applying a
    particular strength, and optionally, a particular collation. The
    DESCENDING option sorts the records in descending order (not in
    default ascending order).

    string: A CHARACTER expression that evaluates to the
        string whose collation value you want to generate.

    strength: A CHARACTER expression that evaluates to an ABL comparison
        strength or an International Components for Unicode (ICU) comparison
        strength.

        The ABL comparison strengths include:

         RAW —
          Generates a collation value for the string based on its binary value.
         CASE-SENSITIVE — Generates a case-sensitive collation value
          for the string based on a particular collation. If you specify this strength
          with an ICU collation, the AVM applies the ICU TERTIARY strength.
         CASE-INSENSITIVE — Generates a case-insensitive collation
          value for the string based on a particular collation. If you specify
          this strength with an ICU collation, the AVM applies the ICU SECONDARY strength.
         CAPS — Generates a collation value for the string based
          on its binary value after converting any lowercase letters in the
          string to uppercase letters, based on the settings of the Internal
          Code Page (-cpinternal) and Case Table (-cpcase)
          startup parameters.

        The ICU comparison strengths include:

         PRIMARY — Generates a collation value for the base characters
          in the string.
         SECONDARY — Generates a collation value for the base characters
          and any diacritical marks in the string.
         TERTIARY — Generates a case-sensitive collation value
          for the base characters and any diacritical marks in the string.
         QUATERNARY — Generates a case-sensitive collation value
          for the base characters and any diacritical marks in the string,
          and distinguishes words with and without punctuation. ICU uses this
          strength to distinguish between Hiragana and Katakana when applied
          with the ICU-JA (Japanese) collation. Otherwise, it is the same
          as TERTIARY.

        Note: Use ICU comparison strengths
        only with ICU collations.

    collation: A CHARACTER expression that evaluates to the name of an ABL
        collation table or ICU collation. If collation does
        not appear, COLLATE uses the collation table of the client.

        The
        AVM reports an error and stops execution if one of the following occurs:

         strength does not evaluate to a valid value.
         collation does not evaluate to a collation
          table residing in the convmap.cp file.
         collation evaluates to a collation table
          that is not defined for the code page corresponding to the -cpinternal startup
          parameter.

variable = expression1 TO expression2[ BY k]: Identifies the name of a field or variable whose value you
    are incrementing in a loop. The expression1 is
    the starting value for variable on the first
    iteration of the loop. The k is the amount to
    add to variable after each iteration and must
    be a constant. It (k) defaults to 1. The variable,
    expression1, and expression2 parameters
    must be integers.

    When variable exceeds expression2 (or
    is less than expression2 if k is
    negative) the loop ends. Since expression1 is
    compared to expression2 at the start of the first
    iteration of the block, the block can be executed 0 times. The AVM
    re-evaluates expression2 on each iteration of
    the block.

WHILE expression: Indicates the condition in which you want the FOR
    EACH block to continue processing the statements within it. Using the
    WHILE
    expression option causes the block to iterate as
    long as the condition specified by the expression is TRUE or the AVM reaches the end of
    the index it is scanning, whichever comes first. The expression is any combination of
    constants, operators, field names, and variable names that yield a logical value.

TRANSACTION: Identifies the FOR EACH block as a
    system transaction block. The AVM starts a system transaction for each iteration of a
    transaction block if there is not already an active system transaction. See Develop ABL Applications for more information on
    transactions.

stop-after-phrase: Specifies a time-out value (in seconds) for the block. This is the
    syntax for the STOP-AFTER phrase:

    For more information see STOP-AFTER phrase.

on-error-phrase: Describes the processing that takes place when there is an error
    during a block. This is the syntax for the ON ERROR phrase:

    For more information, see the ON ERROR phrase.

on-endkey-phrase: Describes the processing that takes place when the ENDKEY
    condition occurs during a block. This is the syntax for the ON ENDKEY
    phrase:

    For more information, see the ON ENDKEY phrase.

on-quit-phrase: Describes the processing that takes place when a
    QUIT statement is executed during a block. This is the syntax for
    the ON QUIT phrase:

    For more information, see the ON QUIT phrase.

on-stop-phrase: Describes the processing that takes place when the
    STOP condition occurs during a block. This is the syntax for the
    ON STOP phrase:

    For more information, see the ON STOP phrase.

frame-phrase: Specifies the overall layout and processing properties of a frame. This is the syntax
    for the frame phrase:

    For more information on frame-phrase, see the
    Frame phrase.

Examples

The following example code displays the Customer with the lowest CreditLimit. Note that you cannot use a FOR
FIRST statement to do this because the AVM finds the first record before any
sorting, Therefore a BY option, if specified, would have no effect on the
record returned. Instead you can use a FOR EACH statement and exit the loop
after displaying the first record.

The following code reads Customer records that have a CustNum less than 12, sorting the records in order by State before displaying them:

The following example code gets information from four related tables
(Customer, Order, OrderLine, and Item) and displays some information from each. Before
displaying the information, the FOR EACH statement sorts
it in order by the PromiseDate field, then, within that
field, in order by CustNum. Within the CustNum field, the data is sorted by the LineNum field.

The following code uses the LAST
option to display information on the last Order of each Customer:

Notes

 At compile time, ABL determines which index or indexes to use for
  retrieving records from a table, based on the conditions in the record-phrase. For compatibility with Progress Version 6 or earlier, you can
  force ABL to use only one index by specifying the USE-INDEX option or by using the Version 6 Query (-v6q) parameter.
 If you specify the -v6q startup
  parameter, an index component is involved in an equality match if it is used in the
  record-phrase conditions in the following form:

  Where the expression is
  independent of any fields in the table that the index is being selected from. A
  condition involving OF and USING are equivalent to
  this form. A field is involved in a range match if it is used in a condition of this
  form:

  The BEGINS operator translates into two range matches
  for a field.

  An equality or range match is considered
  active if the equality or range condition stands on its own or is
  related to other conditions solely through the AND operator (for
  example, not through OR or NOT).

  A field is involved in a sort match if it is used in a
  BY option of this form:

 If you specify the -v6q startup parameter,
  the following list describes the rules the OpenEdge database manager
  uses to choose an index for an OpenEdge database:
• If you specify the record by ROWID, the AVM accesses the
    record directly without using an index.
• If you use the USE-INDEX option, in the record-phrase, the AVM uses the index you name in that
    option.
• For each index in the table, the ABL compiler looks at each index
    component in turn and counts the number of active equality, range,
    and sort matches. ABL ignores the counts for any components of an
    index that occur after a component that has no active equality match.
    ABL compares the results of this count and selects the best index.
    ABL uses the following order to determine the better of any two
    indexes:
If one index is unique and all of its components are involved in active equality
       matches and the other index is not unique, or if not all of its components are
       involved in active equality matches, ABL chooses the former of the two.
Select the index with more active equality matches.
Select the index with more active range matches.
Select the index with more active sort matches.
Select the index that is the primary index.
Select the first index alphabetically by index name.
 If you specify the -v6q startup parameter,
  the AVM might have to scan all the records in the index to find
  those meeting the conditions, or it might have to examine only a
  subset of the records. This latter case is called bracketing the
  index and results in more efficient access. Having selected an index
  as previously described, the ABL compiler examines each component
  as follows to see if the index can be bracketed:
• If the component
    has an active equality match, ABL can bracket it, and it examines
    the next component for possible bracketing.
• If the component has an active range match, ABL can bracket
    it, but it does not examine the remaining components for possible bracketing.
• If the component does not have an active equality match or an active
    range match, ABL does not examine the remaining components for bracketing.
 If you specify the v6q parameter, any conditions you specify in the
  record-phrase that are not involved in bracketing
  the selected index are applied to the fields in the record itself to determine if the
  record meets the overall record-phrase criteria. For
  example, assume that the f table has fields a, b, and c involved in two indexes:
• Primary, unique index (I1) on a, b, and c
• Secondary non-unique index (I2) on c

  The following table shows the index ABL selects and the bracketed
  part of the index for various record-phrases.

  Table 1. Progress Version 6 index selection examples

 The FIRST and LAST keywords are especially useful when you are sorting
  records in a table in which you want to display information. Often, several related
  records exist in a related table, but you only want to display the first or last related
  record from that table in the sort. You can use FIRST
  or LAST in these cases.

  Suppose you
  were interested in displaying the date when each Customer first placed an order. This
  procedure displays the Customer number and date of the first Order:

  The following example code displays the last Order Line of
  every Order, sorted by the Price of the Item and by the Promised Date of the Order:

 If you want the AVM to use a specific index, you must specify the first
  component of that index in the record phrase of the FOR statement.
 You cannot reference a BLOB or CLOB field in a WHERE
  clause.
 For SpeedScript, the on-endkey-phrase and the on-quit-phrase
  do not apply.
 If server-side join is enabled and the join query contains a
  variable in the WHERE clause, that variable should not be updated
  inside the FOR block, as changes to the variable's value are not
  communicated to the server after the join is initially sent by the client. If you do
  update a variable, then the results returned may not be as expected.

  The following
  example show such a case:

  To avoid this behavior, separate the inner join into its own inner
  FOR block to have the client perform the join. For
  example:

 When a join query executes, there is no guarantee that any child table buffers of a join
  are released unless the record of its immediate parent table is fetched. With server-side join enabled, because the server only
  sends records that satisfies all levels of the join, you may see that a record that used
  to be released on a child table is no longer released. Therefore, if no records satisfy
  the query, then the child buffers are left in scope. For example:

  If there are no Customer records that satisfy the
  WHERE clause, then the Order record remains in scope,
  whether server-side join is involved or not. If there are Customer and
  Order records that satisfy the query, then the Order
  record in scope is released. When server-side join is not enabled, the ABL client drives
  the resolution of the join so the client needs to retrieve a record from the parent level
  before trying to find records in its child table, in which case it does release the
  Order record. For this reason, it is not recommended that you depend on
  the availability of a record of a child table in a join after the join is executed.

See also

CATCH statement, FINALLY statement, FIND statement, Frame phrase, ON ENDKEY phrase, ON ERROR phrase, ON QUIT phrase, ON STOP phrase, Record phrase, STOP-AFTER phrase




GET statement

Returns one record for a previously opened query.

Syntax

FIRST query: Finds the first record associated with the query. The query
    must have been previously opened in an OPEN QUERY statement. The
    order of the records is determined by the options specified in the
    Record phrase the OPEN QUERY statement.

NEXT query: Returns the first or next record associated with the query.
    The query must have been previously opened in an OPEN QUERY statement.
    The order of the records is determined by the options specified
    in the OPEN QUERY statement of the Record phrase.

PREV query: Returns the preceding or last record associated with the query.
    The query must have been previously opened in an OPEN QUERY statement. The
    order of the records is determined by the options specified in the OPEN
    QUERY statement of the Record phrase.

LAST query: Returns the last record associated with the query. The query
    must have been previously opened in an OPEN QUERY statement. The
    order of the records is determined by the options specified in the
    OPEN QUERY of the Record phrase.

CURRENT query: Refetches the current record or records associated with the
    query. The query must have been previously opened in an OPEN QUERY
    statement. If the query is a join, the AVM returns the current record
    for all tables in the join.

SHARE-LOCK: Specifies that the record is share locked. Overrides the default locking
    of the OPEN QUERY statement. This applies to all buffers in a join.

EXCLUSIVE-LOCK: Specifies that the record is exclusively locked. Overrides the
    default locking of the OPEN QUERY statement. This applies to all
    buffers in a join.

NO-LOCK: Specifies that no lock is applied to the record. Overrides the
    default locking of the OPEN QUERY statement. This applies to all
    buffers in a join.

NO-WAIT: Specifies that the GET statement returns immediately if the
    record cannot be accessed because it is locked by another user.
    If you do not use the NO-WAIT option, the GET statement waits until
    the record can be accessed. This applies to all buffers in a join.
    If you specify NO-WAIT and the record is locked by another user,
    the record is returned to you with NO-LOCK and the LOCKED function
    returns TRUE for the record.

Example

This
procedure uses the GET statement to find Customer orders:

r-getord.p

In the example, the GET FIRST statement fetches
the first Customer record and the first Order record for that Customer.
The GET NEXT statement fetches the next Order record for the Customer.
If no more Order records are found for the current Customer, then
the GET NEXT statement fetches the next Customer and the first Order
record for that Customer. If a Customer has no Orders, the GET statement
skips that Customer.

Notes

 The
  query must be opened with the OPEN QUERY statement before any records
  are fetched.
 A query that references more than one buffer defines a join.
  Each GET statement returns one set of records.
 If you execute a GET NEXT statement after the last record of
  the query has been fetched or you execute a GET PREV statement after
  the first record of the query has been fetched, the ERROR condition
  is not raised. However, you can use the AVAILABLE function
  to test whether a record was returned for the query fetch. You can also
  use the QUERY-OFF-END function to determine if the query is positioned at the end
  of its result list.
 If the query is positioned before the first record, GET NEXT
  acts the same as a GET FIRST; similarly, if the query is
  positioned beyond the last record, GET PREV acts the same as GET
  LAST.
 The GET LAST statement can be slow unless the AVM has performed a
  presort or already returned the last record that satisfies the query,
  or you specify USE-INDEX for the query (or the query happens to
  only use one index). Also, GET LAST might be slow if the query involves
  an outer join.
 If you do not specify a lock type, the AVM uses the lock type
  specified in the OPEN QUERY statement. If no lock type is specified
  in either the GET or OPEN QUERY statement, then the default ABL
  locking rules apply.
 If a GET CURRENT statement fails because of a lock conflict,
  the AVM rereads the record with a NO-LOCK status.
 When a GET statement executes, any FIND triggers defined for
  the tables are executed.
 FIND triggers do not execute for a GET CURRENT statement.
 To upgrade the lock on only one table in a join, use the FIND CURRENT
  statement.
 A query that includes a BREAK BY phrase becomes a FORWARD-ONLY
  query. In this case you cannot use the GET FIRST, GET LAST, or GET
  PREV statements. If you do, the AVM raises ERROR.
 When you execute an OPEN QUERY or REPOSITION statement for a query associated with a
  browse widget, the browse is automatically adjusted to remain in sync with the query.
  However, when you execute a GET statement or method, the browse is not adjusted. You can
  use the GET statement, or one of the GET methods (GET-CURRENT/FIRST/LAST/NEXT/PREV) to
  perform background processing without affecting the browse, but you must execute a
  REPOSITION statement or one of the REPOSITION methods
  (REPOSITION-BACKWARD/FORWARD/TO-ROW/TO-ROWID) to put the query and browse back in
  sync.

See also

AVAILABLE function, CLOSE QUERY statement, CURRENT-CHANGED function, CURRENT-RESULT-ROW function, DEFINE QUERY statement, FIND statement, FOR statement, LOCKED function, NUM-RESULTS function, OPEN QUERY statement, QUERY-OFF-END function, REPOSITION statement




LAST-OF function

Returns a TRUE value if the current iteration
of a DO, FOR EACH, or REPEAT... BREAK block is the last iteration
for a particular value of a break group.

Syntax

break-group: The name of a field or expression you named in the block header with
    the BREAK BY option.

Example

This
procedure uses LAST-OF to display a single line of information on each Item.CatPage group
in the Item file, without displaying any individual
item data. It produces a report that shows the aggregate value OnHand for
each catalog page.

r-lastof.p

See also

FIRST function, FIRST-OF function, LAST function




LIST-QUERY-ATTRS function

Returns a comma-separated list of attributes
and methods that are supported for an object or widget.

Syntax

handle: A handle to a valid object or widget. The function returns a
    list of the attributes and methods that are supported for that object
    or widget.

Example

The
following example uses the LIST-QUERY-ATTRS and LIST-SET-ATTRS functions
to populate selection lists with the valid attributes and methods
for a specified widget. When you run this procedure, type? at
any time to see lists of valid attributes for the widget that currently
has focus.

r-lattrs.p

See also

CAN-QUERY function, CAN-SET function, LAST-EVENT system handle, LIST-EVENTS function, LIST-SET-ATTRS function, LIST-WIDGETS function, VALID-EVENT function




LOCKED function

Returns a TRUE value in the following cases:

 a record is not available to a prior FIND... NO-WAIT statement because another user has
  locked the record
 a record is not available to a GET... NO-WAIT statement because another user has
  locked the record

Syntax

record: The name of a record or buffer.

    To use the LOCKED function with a record in a table defined for
    multiple databases, you must qualify the record's table name with the database name.
    See the record definition in the Record phrase reference entry for more
    information.

Example

The
FIND statement in this procedure tries to retrieve a customer record according
to a supplied customer number. Because of the NO-ERROR option, the
FIND statement does not return an error if it cannot find the record.
The NO-WAIT option causes FIND to return immediately if the record
is in use by another user.

r-locked.p

A record might not be available if it is locked
(being used by another user) or does not exist. The LOCKED function
returns a TRUE value if the record is locked. In this case, the r-locked.p procedure
displays a message that the record is locked. If the record is not
locked, the procedure displays a message that the record does not
exist.

Note: The result of the LOCKED function
depends on the lock mode specified. For example, if the FIND statement
uses SHARE-LOCK and no user has an EXCLUSIVE-LOCK on the record,
the LOCKED function returns FALSE. If the FIND statement uses SHARE-LOCK
and another user has an EXCLUSIVE-LOCK on the record, the LOCKED
function returns TRUE. The current copy of the record in the buffer
to which the LOCKED function applies is not locked. Rather, LOCKED
refers to an error condition that can occur if the record is locked.
Consider using the NO-WAIT and NO-ERROR options on the FIND statement
to return immediately and raise an error condition.

See also

AMBIGUOUS function, AVAILABLE function, FIND statement, NEW function (record buffers)




MATCHES operator

Compares a character expression to a pattern and evaluates to a TRUE value
if the expression satisfies the pattern criteria.

Syntax

expression: A CHARACTER or LONGCHAR expression that you want to check to
    see if it conforms with the pattern.

pattern: A character expression that you want to match with the string. This
    can include a constant, field name, variable name, or expression whose
    value is a character.

    The pattern can contain wildcard
    characters: a period (.) in a particular position indicates that any
    single character is acceptable in that position; an asterisk ()
    indicates that any group of characters is acceptable, including a null group of
    characters.

Example

This procedure displays customer information for all
Customers whose Address ends in
St. The procedure does not use an index for the Customer
search in r-match.p.

r-match.p

Notes

 MATCHES does not use index information when performing
  a comparison; it always scans the entire data table.
 MATCHES does not ignore trailing blanks as does the
  equal (EQ) comparison operator. Thus, "abc" does not
  match "abc        " although they are considered equal.
 Most character comparisons are case insensitive in ABL. By default, all
  characters are converted to uppercase prior to comparisons. However, you can define fields
  and variables as case sensitive (although it is not advised, unless strict ANSI SQL
  adherence is required). If the expression preceding the
  MATCHES keyword is a field or variable defined as case sensitive, the
  comparison is case sensitive. In a case-sensitive comparison "SMITH" does
  not equal "Smith".
 MATCHES converts a LONGCHAR variable value to -cpinternal prior to comparison. The variable must convert
  without error, or the AVM raises a run-time error.
 You cannot use MATCHES to compare one CLOB field to
  another.
 To specify either an asterisk (), as a literal
  character rather than a wildcard character in the pattern, or a period
  (.) as a literal character, you must enter a tilde (~)
  before the character. However, if you specify the match pattern as a literal quoted string
  in a procedure file, you must enter each tilde as a double tilde ().
  The first tilde escapes the second tilde, so that the AVM interprets the second tilde as a
  tilde for the match pattern. For example, the result of "a.b" MATCHES
  "a~~.b"  is TRUE.
 The MATCHES function is double-byte enabled. Both the
  specified expression and pattern arguments can contain double-byte characters.
 MATCHES does not fully support collations for the UTF-8 codepage, if
  extended characters are involved.
• The MATCHES operator does not use a collation to compare character
  expressions by default. However, you can apply collation sensitivity (for UTF-8 codepages
  only) by using the Collation-Sensitive Operator (-collop) startup parameter.

See also

BEGINS operator




NEW function (record buffers)

Checks a record buffer and returns a TRUE value if the record in that buffer is newly created. If the record was read from the database, NEW returns a FALSE value.

Syntax

record: The name of the record buffer you want to check with the NEW
    function.

    To use the NEW function with a record in a table defined
    for multiple databases, you must qualify the record's table name with the database
    name. See the record definition in the Record phrase reference entry for more
    information.

Example

This
procedure enters new Orders, optionally creating a Customer record if
one does not exist. The NEW function is later used to select alternate processing
depending if a Customer is newly created or already exists.

r-newrecord.p

Note

The NEW
function returns a TRUE value only during the transaction in which
the record is created. If the scope of the record is greater than
the transaction in which the record is created, the NEW function
returns a FALSE value outside the transaction.

See also

AVAILABLE function, FIND statement, LOCKED function, Record phrase




NEXT statement

Goes directly to the END of an iterating block
and starts the next iteration of the block.

Syntax

label: The name of the block for which you want to start the next iteration. If
    you do not name a block, the AVM starts the next iteration of the
    innermost iterating block that contains the NEXT statement.

Example

The
FOR EACH block in this procedure reads a single Customer record
on each iteration of the block. If the SalesRep field
of a Customer record does not match the SalesRep value supplied
to the PROMPT-FOR statement, the NEXT statement causes the AVM to
do the next iteration of the FOR EACH block, bypassing the DISPLAY
statement.

r-next.p

See also

LEAVE statement




NOT operator (bitwise)

Performs a bitwise NOT operation on a flag enum instance and returns an instance of the
same type.

Syntax

flag-enum-expression: An expression whose value is a flag enum instance. The expression cannot be the
    Unknown value (?).

Example

You can use bitwise NOT to turn off a flag. This code fragment defines a variable of type
Progres.Reflect.Flags (see the Progress.Reflect.Flags enumeration entry for a full list of enumerators) and uses NOT to make
sure the Static flag is not set while leaving the other flags
unchanged.

Notes
• This operator can be used with both ABL and.NET flag enums.

See also

AND operator (bitwise), ENUM statement, OR operator (bitwise), XOR operator (bitwise)




NOT operator (logical)

Returns TRUE if an expression is false, and FALSE if an expression is true.

Syntax

expression: A logical expression whose value is logical, that is TRUE/FALSE,
    YES/NO.

Note: It is
possible for an operand to evaluate to the Unknown value (?). For a
NOT operation, the result is the Unknown value (?), if
expression evaluates to the Unknown value (?).

Example

In
this procedure, if the user enters the number of a Customer that
does not exist, the procedure displays a message that the Customer
does not exist and the user must try again. If the Customer does
exist, the procedure displays the Name and Phone number
of the Customer.

r-not.p

See also

AND operator (logical), OR operator (logical)




NUM-RESULTS function

Returns, as an INTEGER value, the number of
rows currently in the results list of a scrolling query. The results
list is initialized when the query is opened. Depending on the query,
the entire list is built immediately upon opening or it is gradually
as needed.

Syntax

query-name: A character expression that evaluates to the name of a currently open,
    scrolling query. If query-name does not resolve
    to the name of a query, or if the query is not open or not scrolling, then
    the function returns the Unknown value (?).

    Note: Searching
    for a query using a handle is more efficient than a character expression.
    The AVM resolves a character expression at run time by searching
    in the current routine for a static query with that name. If not
    found, the AVM searches the enclosing main procedure. If still not
    found, the AVM searches up through the calling programs of the current
    routine, and their main procedures. Since a handle uniquely identifies
    a query, no such search is required. Use the query object handle's NUM-RESULTS attribute to
    avoid a run-time search.

Example

The
following example uses the NUM-RESULTS function in a message to report
on the number of rows in a browse. Note that the query is opened
with the PRESELECT option so that the entire results list is built
immediately. Otherwise, NUM-RESULTS might not return the total number
of rows in the browse. When you run this procedure and choose a
button, the AVM selects certain rows within the browse and then
reports on the number of rows selected and the total number of rows
in the browse.

r-brownr.p

Notes

 To
  use the NUM-RESULTS function with a query, the query must be associated
  with a browse widget or you must define the query with the SCROLLING
  option. For more information on query definitions, see the reference
  entry for the DEFINE QUERY statement.
 If the query is empty, NUM-RESULTS returns 0.
• When possible, the AVM performs optimizations for GET LAST and REPOSITION
  statements. These optimizations make the results list invalid. At
  that point, NUM-RESULTS returns the Unknown value (?).
  These optimizations do not occur if the query is opened with the
  PRESELECT option or has an associated browse widget.

See also

CLOSE QUERY statement, CURRENT-RESULT-ROW function, DEFINE BROWSE statement, DEFINE QUERY statement, GET statement, NUM-RESULTS attribute, OPEN QUERY statement, QUERY-OFF-END function, REPOSITION statement




OPEN QUERY statement

Opens a query, which might have been previously defined in a DEFINE
QUERY statement. Opening a query makes it available for use within a
GET statement, or in a browse widget.

Syntax

query: The query to open. The query name may have been defined previously in
    a DEFINE QUERY statement. Otherwise, the OPEN QUERY
    statement implicitly defines the query.

{ FOR | PRESELECT } EACH record-phrase: Specifies the first buffer of the query.

    The
    following is the syntax for record-phrase:

    If the query was previously defined, the buffers referenced
    by the record-phrase must be the same buffers
    referenced in the DEFINE QUERY statement and in the same order. For
    more information, see the Record phrase reference entry.

    Note that the first
    buffer must be qualified with EACH rather than the
    FIRST option. That is, the OPEN QUERY statement
    implies the possibility of a multi-row result, whether or not only one row is
    returned.

    If you specify PRESELECT rather than
    FOR, then the AVM preselects the records for the query. During the
    preselect process, the AVM applies whatever locking is specified in the OPEN
    QUERY statement or, if none is specified, SHARE-LOCK. It
    then reads the ROWID for each record into the result list. (If you do
    not specify PRESELECT, the AVM might pass through the records anyway
    to presort them. In this case, the AVM applies NO-LOCK to each record
    during this pass.)

{ EACH | FIRST | LAST }record-phrase: Specifies subsequent buffers in the query. Each subsequent buffer
    specifies a join with the previous buffer(s) according to the record-phrase. If the query was previously defined, the buffers referenced
    by the record-phrase must be the same buffers
    referenced in the DEFINE QUERY statement and in the same order. For
    more information on specifying joins in Record phrases, see the Record phrase reference entry.

query-tuning-phrase: Allows programmatic control over the execution of a DataServer query.
    Following is the syntax for the query-tuning-phrase:

    For more information, see your OpenEdge DataServer Guides
    (Use the Microsoft SQL Data Server and Use the Oracle Data Server).

BREAK: Over a series of query iterations, you might want to do some work
    based on whether the value of a certain field changes. This field defines a break group.
    For example, you might be accumulating some value, such as a total. You use the
    BREAK option to define customer.state as the break group, as
    shown:

    When using the BREAK option you must also
    use the BY option to name a sort field.

    To
    test whether a break group has changed, you can use the FIRST-OF() method and LAST-OF() method of the
    query object handle.

BY expression[ DESCENDING ]: Specifies the order in which records are to be returned. If an index
    is defined with the right leading keys to satisfy the BY clause, the
    AVM uses that index to sort the records. Otherwise, the AVM must presort the records
    before the first fetch when you specify BY. The
    DESCENDING option sorts the records in descending order (not in the
    default ascending order).

COLLATE (string, strength[, collation]) [ DESCENDING ]: Generates the collation value of a string after applying a particular
    strength, and optionally, a particular collation. The DESCENDING option
    sorts the records in descending order (not in default ascending order).

    string: A CHARACTER expression that evaluates to the string whose
        collation value you want to generate.

    strength: A CHARACTER expression that evaluates to an ABL comparison
        strength or an International Components for Unicode (ICU) comparison strength.

        The ABL comparison strengths include:

         RAW — Generates a collation value
          for the string based on its binary value.
         CASE-SENSITIVE — Generates a
          case-sensitive collation value for the string based on a particular collation.
          If you specify this strength with an ICU collation, the AVM applies the ICU
          TERTIARY strength.
         CASE-INSENSITIVE — Generates a
          case-insensitive collation value for the string based on a particular
          collation. If you specify this strength with an ICU collation, the AVM applies
          the ICU SECONDARY strength.
         CAPS — Generates a collation value
          for the string based on its binary value after converting any lowercase
          letters in the string to uppercase letters, based on the settings of the
          Internal Code Page (-cpinternal) and Case
          Table (-cpcase) startup parameters.

        The ICU comparison strengths include:

         PRIMARY — Generates a collation
          value for the base characters in the string.
         SECONDARY — Generates a collation
          value for the base characters and any diacritical marks in the string.
         TERTIARY — Generates a
          case-sensitive collation value for the base characters and any diacritical
          marks in the string.
         QUATERNARY — Generates a
          case-sensitive collation value for the base characters and any diacritical
          marks in the string, and distinguishes words with and without punctuation. ICU
          uses this strength to distinguish between Hiragana and Katakana when applied
          with the ICU-JA (Japanese) collation. Otherwise, it is the same as
          TERTIARY.

        Note: Use ICU comparison strengths only with ICU
        collations.

    collation: A CHARACTER expression that evaluates to the name of an ABL
        collation table or ICU collation. If collation
        does not appear, COLLATE uses the collation table of the client.

         The AVM reports an error and stops execution if one of the
          following occurs:
• strength does not
            evaluate to a valid value.
• collation does not
            evaluate to a collation table residing in the convmap.cp file.
• collation evaluates
            to a collation table that is not defined for the code page corresponding
            to the -cpinternal startup
            parameter.

INDEXED-REPOSITION: If you specify this option, the AVM attempts to optimize subsequent
    REPOSITION TO ROWID operations on the query. This can improve the
    performance of REPOSITION operations that must jump over many records
    in a simple query. Optimization is not possible if the database is not an OpenEdge
    database, or sorting or preselection is performed. In these cases, the
    INDEXED-REPOSITION option is ignored and no error is reported.

    The optimization has some side effects. When you perform a
    REPOSITION TO ROWID with this optimization, the AVM discards the
    original result list and begins a new one. Therefore, scrolling forward or backward in
    the list might return different records from before. Also, the values of the
    NUM-RESULTS and CURRENT-RESULT-ROW become invalid.
    If the query has an associated browse, any selections in that browse are also lost.
    Lastly, the vertical scrollbar thumb is disabled. Because of these side-effects, use
    this option selectively.

MAX-ROWS num-results: Specifies the maximum number of records to be returned by the query.
    Any other records satisfying the query are ignored and no error
    is raised. The limit is imposed before any sorting occurs; the AVM
    retrieves records up to the number specified and then sorts those
    records.

    This option is valid for scrolling queries only. You
    can use it to prevent a long delay that might occur if a query returns
    many more records than you expect.

Example

The following example opens a query on the Customer,
Order, OrderLine, and Item tables:

r-opqury.p

Note the use of field lists in the DEFINE QUERY
statement. This can improve the performance of remote database queries significantly.

Notes

 If the query you reference in an OPEN QUERY statement
  is already open, then that query is closed and a new query is opened.
 If you use the USE-INDEX option of the Record phrase,
  the AVM uses only that index. Records are returned in index order.
 The locking options of the OPEN QUERY statement define
  the default locking for records fetched by the query. You can override the default by
  using a locking option in the GET statement. Note, however, that in the
  OPEN QUERY statement you can specify a separate lock type for each
  buffer; in the GET statement you can specify only one lock type that
  applies to all buffers in a join.
 The record locking behavior specified for a query in the DEFINE
  BROWSE statement overrides the record locking behavior specified with the
  OPEN QUERY statement. The default record locking behavior of a browse
  widget is NO-LOCK. The default record locking behavior of a query defined
  with the OPEN QUERY statement is SHARE-LOCK. If you
  define a query and a browse widget for the query without explicitly defining record
  locking behavior, the query will have the NO-LOCK behavior.
 Each time you open a query associated with a browse widget,
  the data in the browse is refreshed.
 If you reopen a query to refresh the data displayed in a browse widget,
  a selected row might not reflect the database's most current data. To view the latest data
  in a selected row, add a FIND CURRENT statement before the OPEN
  QUERY statement. This additional code allows the AVM to put the current record
  into memory before executing the OPEN QUERY statement.
 You cannot use the CAN-FIND function in a
  WHERE clause. Doing so generates a compiler error.
 If you open a query that has already been defined with multiple
  buffers, you must specify the buffers in the same order in the OPEN QUERY
  as they were specified in the DEFINE QUERY statement.
 Once the query has been opened, you cannot change the buffers that it
  references, even if the query is closed and re-opened. For example, a buffer, buff1, is
  created for the customer table in a DEFINE QUERY or OPEN
  QUERY for the query, qry1. The query is run and closed. You
  cannot now DEFINE or OPEN qry1 with
  buff1 for the item table. You can reuse buffers with
  CREATE QUERY, but you must re-run QUERY-PREPARE.
 A ProDataSet data-relation defined with REPOSITION or
  SELECTION is overridden if a query is defined for a child relation
  data-source. Normally, if REPOSITION is not specified, the child query
  selects the children of the parent. But coding a query for the child data-source overrides
  whether or not a SELECTION or REPOSITION relation mode
  was defined.
 For sorting and indexing purposes, the Unknown value (?) sorts high. This means that fields with the Unknown value (?) are sorted after all other values, so when you display all
  records of a table, the records with the Unknown value (?) in the field(s) used for ordering the record appear last. However, if the
  query does a range match on that field, the rules in Table 1 still apply. That is, a query
  with a WHERE clause with "field <?" does not return any records due to the rules described in Table 1. That also
  impacts a query with the INDEXED-REPOSITION option and a range match
  where the runtime needs to validate that the record is part of the query's result-set. For
  that reason, it is recommended that the WHERE phrase of such queries use
  the EQ or NE operator with the Unknown value (?) to define if they should be included or not, if that field
  could have the Unknown value (?).

See also

CLOSE QUERY statement, CREATE QUERY statement, CURRENT-RESULT-ROW function, DEFINE BROWSE statement, DEFINE DATASET statement, DEFINE QUERY statement, GET statement, NUM-RESULTS function, QUERY-OFF-END function, QUERY-PREPARE() method, REPOSITION statement




PRESELECT phrase

Specifies a set of records to preselect for
a DO or REPEAT block.

Syntax

[ EACH | FIRST | LAST ]record-phrase: Goes through a table, selecting records that meet the criteria
    you specify in record-phrase. PRESELECT creates
    a temporary index that contains pointers to each of the preselected
    records in the database table. Then you can use other statements,
    such as FIND NEXT, within the block to process those records.

    The record-phrase option
    identifies the criteria to use when preselecting records. Following
    is the syntax for the record-phrase:

    Specifying multiple occurrences of record-phrase preselects
    the tables using an inner join. Also, any sorting you specify applies
    to all the tables. If you then do a FIND on the last table in the
    PRESELECT list, the AVM reads records into the buffers for all of
    the tables in the list.

    For more information on record-phrase and inner
    joins, see the Record phrase reference entry.

BREAK: When used in combination with the FIRST function, LAST function,
    FIRST-OF function, and LAST-OF function, BREAK indicates that subgroups
    are used for aggregation. If you use BREAK, you must also use BY.

BY expression[ DESCENDING ]: Sorts the preselected records by the value of expression.
    If you do not use the BY option, PRESELECT sorts the records in
    order by the index used to extract the records. The DESCENDING option
    sorts the records in descending order (not in the default ascending
    order).

COLLATE (string, strength[, collation]) [ DESCENDING ]: Generates the collation value of a string after applying a particular strength,
    and optionally, a particular collation. The DESCENDING option sorts
    the records in descending order (not in default ascending order).

    string: A CHARACTER expression that evaluates to the string whose collation
        value you want to generate.

    strength: A CHARACTER expression that evaluates to an ABL comparison strength
        or an International Components for Unicode (ICU) comparison strength.

        The
        ABL comparison strengths include:

         RAW — Generates
          a collation value for the string based on its binary value.
         CASE-SENSITIVE — Generates a case-sensitive collation value
          for the string based on a particular collation. If you specify this strength
          with an ICU collation, the AVM applies the ICU TERTIARY strength.
         CASE-INSENSITIVE — Generates a case-insensitive collation
          value for the string based on a particular collation. If you specify
          this strength with an ICU collation, the AVM applies the ICU SECONDARY strength.
         CAPS — Generates a collation value for the string based
          on its binary value after converting any lowercase letters in the
          string to uppercase letters, based on the settings of the Internal
          Code Page (-cpinternal) and Case Table (-cpcase)
          startup parameters.

        The ICU comparison strengths include:

         PRIMARY — Generates a collation value for the base characters
          in the string.
         SECONDARY — Generates a collation value for the base characters
          and any diacritical marks in the string.
         TERTIARY — Generates a case-sensitive collation value
          for the base characters and any diacritical marks in the string.
         QUATERNARY — Generates a case-sensitive collation value
          for the base characters and any diacritical marks in the string,
          and distinguishes words with and without punctuation. ICU uses this
          strength to distinguish between Hiragana and Katakana when applied
          with the ICU-JA (Japanese) collation. Otherwise, it is the same
          as TERTIARY.

        Note: Use ICU comparison strengths
        only with ICU collations.

    collation: A CHARACTER expression that evaluates to the name of an ABL collation
        table or ICU collation. If collation does not
        appear, COLLATE uses the collation table of the client.

        The AVM
        reports an error and stops execution if one of the following occurs:

         strength does not evaluate to a valid value.
         collation does not evaluate to a collation
          table residing in the convmap.cp file.
• collation evaluates to a collation table
          that is not defined for the code page corresponding to the -cpinternal startup
          parameter.

Examples

To
process a multi-table collection gathered by the PRESELECT option, use
the last table named in the collection when you want to read the
selected records. The AVM then automatically retrieves records from
the other tables.

r-presl1.p

The PRESELECT option in this example selects
the logically joined record that consists of Order, OrderLine, and
Customer, and makes all of these records available in the REPEAT
block. Usually you perform more complex processing within the PRESELECT
block.

If, within a PRESELECT block, you find a record using
the ROWID of that record, the AVM disregards any other selection
criteria you applied to the PRESELECT. For example, suppose the
ROWID of Order number 4 is stored in the variable ord-rowid:

In this example, the AVM finds and displays
order number 4 even though the selection criteria specifies that
the order number must be greater than 5. The ROWID always overrides
other selection criteria. Furthermore, if you use FIND...WHERE ROWID(record)
=..., the index cursor is not reset in the preselected list. That
is, even if record ROWID(record) is in the preselected
list, FIND NEXT does not find the record that follows it
in the preselected list.

See also

DEFINE BUFFER statement, DO statement, FIND statement, REPEAT statement




QUERY-OFF-END function

Returns a LOGICAL value indicating whether
the specified query is positioned at the end of its result list
(either before the first record or after the last record).

Syntax

query-name: A character expression that evaluates to the name of a currently open
    query. If query-name does not resolve to the name
    of a query, or if the query is not open, then the function returns
    the Unknown value (?).

    Note: Searching for
    a query using a handle is more efficient than a character expression.
    The AVM resolves a character expression at run time by searching
    in the current routine for a static query with that name. If not
    found, the AVM searches the enclosing main procedure. If still not
    found, the AVM searches up through the calling programs of the current
    routine, and their main procedures. Since a handle uniquely identifies
    a query, no such search is required. Use the query object handle's QUERY-OFF-END attribute to avoid a run-time search.

Example

The
following example uses the QUERY-OFF-END function to determine when
to leave the REPEAT loop:

r-qoff.p

When you run this procedure, all Customer numbers
and names are displayed. After the last record is displayed, the
loop iterates and the GET NEXT statement reads beyond the last record.
At this point QUERY-OFF-END returns TRUE and the AVM exits the loop.

Note

To test
whether a GET statement read beyond the last (or first) record,
you can use the AVAILABLE function with the buffer name. You can
also use the QUERY-OFF-END function, which serves the same purpose,
but does not require a specific buffer; it requires only a query
name.

See also

CLOSE QUERY statement, CURRENT-RESULT-ROW function, DEFINE BROWSE statement, DEFINE QUERY statement, GET statement, NUM-RESULTS function, OPEN QUERY statement, QUERY-OFF-END attribute, REPOSITION statement




QUERY-TUNING phrase

Allows programmatic control over the execution
of a query in a DataServer application. This phrase is available
for the DataServers; it is not available for queries of OpenEdge databases.

Syntax

The following descriptions are general. For more detailed information, see
the OpenEdge DataServer Guides (Use the Microsoft SQL Data
Server and Use the Oracle Data Server).

ARRAY-MESSAGE | NO-ARRAY-MESSAGE: Specifies whether the DataServer sends multiple result rows
    in a single logical network message.

    The default is ARRAY-MESSAGE.

BIND-WHERE | NO-BIND-WHERE: This option is available only for the DataServer for ORACLE.

    Specifies
    whether the DataServer uses ORACLE bind variables or literals in
    WHERE clauses. If you use NO-BIND-WHERE, the DataServer uses literals.
    Bind variables can improve performance, but ORACLE produces some
    unexpected results for some data types.

    The default is BIND-WHERE.

CACHE-SIZE integer[ ROW | BYTE ]: Specifies the maximum cache size the DataServer can use when fetching
    records for a lookahead or standard cursor. You can optionally specify
    the size of the cache information in either bytes or records. The following
    values are for ORACLE.

    The default is 1024 for standard cursors
    and 8192 for lookahead cursors.

    If you use the byte option,
    the byte maximum is 65535 bytes and the byte minimum specifies the
    number of bytes contained in a single record. For joins, you must
    specify the number of bytes contained in two records.

    If you
    use the row option, the row maximum equals the maximum number of
    records that can be fit in 65535 bytes. The row minimum is 1 row
    for a single table and 1 rows for a join.

    The default is
{ DEBUG { SQL | EXTENDED diag-option } } | NO-DEBUG: Specifies whether the DataServer should print debugging information
    for the query to the dataserv.lg file.

    The
    SQL option prints the SQL executed by the DataServer against the
    non-OpenEdge DBMS. The extended option prints additional information,
    such as cursor statistics. The information you get when you use the
    EXTENDED option can be helpful in setting your parameters.

    The
    default is NO-DEBUG.

EXTENDED diag-option: The syntax for the diagnostic options is as follows:

    For more information, see the OpenEdge DataServer Guides
    (Use the Microsoft SQL Data Server and Use the Oracle Data Server).

HINT: This option is only available for the DataServer for ORACLE.

    Specifies
    the ORACLE hint syntax that the DataServer passes directly to the
    ORACLE DBMS as part of the query. This allows you to control which
    hints are passed as opposed to the index hints that the DataServer passes
    when appropriate.

INDEX-HINT | NO-INDEX-HINT: This option is available only for the DataServer for ORACLE.

    Specifies
    whether the DataServer provides index hints to the ORACLE DBMS.
    INDEX-HINT places index hints in the generated SQL; NOINDEX-HINT
    prevents the use of index hints.

    The default is INDEX-HINT.

JOIN-BY-SQLDB | NO-JOIN-BY-SQLDB: Specifies whether the non-OpenEdge DBMS can perform joins when
    possible, which usually improves performance.

    The default is
    JOIN-BY-SQLDB.

LOOKAHEAD | NO-LOOKAHEAD: Specifies whether the DataServer uses lookahead or standard cursors.
    Lookahead cursors fetch as many records as can fit into the allocated
    cache, which reduces the number of database accesses and improves performance.

    The
    default is LOOKAHEAD, except with statements that use an EXCLUSIVE
    lock.

ORDERED-JOIN: Specifies that the DataServer embed the ORDERED hint syntax
    in the SQL it generates. Applies to ORACLE only.

REVERSE-FROM: Specifies that tables are joined in the reverse order in which
    they appear in the FROM clause. Applies to ORACLE only.

SEPARATE-CONNECTION | NO-SEPARATE-CONNECTION: Creates a new connection for each cursor that the DataServer opens.
    Applies to the OpenEdge DataServer for Microsoft SQL Server only.

Example

The
following code fragment illustrates a QUERY-TUNING phrase in a FOR
EACH statement. In this example, the DataServer uses lookahead cursors with
a cache size of 32K and records debugging information:

Note

For
the DataServer for ORACLE, all options of the QUERY-TUNING phrase
are effective at both compile and run time, except INDEX-HINT, NO-INDEX-HINT,
JOIN-BY-SQLDB, and NO-JOIN-BY-SQLDB, which are only effective at
compile time.

For more information on the QUERY-TUNING phrase, see the OpenEdge
DataServer Guides (Use the Microsoft SQL Data Server and Use the Oracle Data Server).

See also

DO statement, FOR statement, OPEN QUERY statement, REPEAT statement




Record phrase

Identifies the record or records you want to verify using the
CAN-FIND function, retrieve with a FIND statement, query
with a FOR statement or OPEN QUERY statement, or preselect
in a DO or REPEAT block.

The Record phrase syntax describes three kinds of information:

 Qualifies the record(s) to access in the table
 Specifies the index to use when locating records
 Defines the type of record lock to apply when the records are read

Syntax

Note: You can specify the
OUTER-JOIN, OF, WHERE,
USE-INDEX, TABLE-SCAN, and USING
options in any order. You cannot use field-list in an
OPEN QUERY statement. You cannot use OUTER-JOIN or
EXCLUSIVE-LOCK in a CAN-FIND function.

record: The name of a database table, a temp-table that you named in a
    DEFINE TEMP-TABLE statement, or a buffer that you named in a
    DEFINE BUFFER statement. If record is the name of a table, record
    actually refers to the default buffer of the specified database table or temp-table.
    Also, the default buffer for a database table is always scoped to the main external
    procedure or class definition block even if you reference the default buffer in a
    sub-block, such as an internal procedure or method of a class.

    To access a record in a table defined for multiple databases, you
    must qualify the record's table name with the database name. Use this syntax to refer
    to a record in a table for a specific database:

    You do not have to qualify the reference if record is the name of a defined buffer.

field-list: Specifies a list of fields to include or exclude when you retrieve
    records.

    Field lists allow you to retrieve only specified fields
    rather than all the fields of a record. They can improve performance over a network by
    enabling more records to fit into a single network message. Field lists can be added
    to a FOR, DO PRESELECT, or REPEAT
    PRESELECT statement. They are also available for queries using the
    DEFINE QUERY statement, except when the query is against a
    temp-table. The following is the syntax for field-list:

    The FIELDS option specifies the fields you
    want to include in a record retrieval, and the EXCEPT option
    specifies the fields that you want to exclude from a record retrieval. The field parameter is the name of a single field in the
    specified table. If field is an array reference,
    the whole array is retrieved. Specifying FIELDS with no field references retrieves no fields. However the
    ROWID value for a specified record is available using the
    ROWID function. Specifying EXCEPT with no field references or specifying record without a field-list causes
    the AVM to retrieve a complete record.

    Note:

    Field lists should be used with caution because they can cause
    unexpected run-time errors. For example, it is possible that you did not include a
    field that is required by a new or revised subroutine or trigger. The result can
    be a run-time error that may be difficult to debug. A workaround is to use either
    the Field List Disable (-fldisable) or the Reread Fields (-rereadfields) client session startup
    parameter. This will allow your application to run (although more slowly) until
    the application can be fixed.

    Note the difference between -fldisable and -rereadfields. The
    Field List Disable (-fldisable) parameter causes
    the AVM to ignore all field lists and to fetch the entire
    record for every query. The Reread Fields (-rereadfields) parameter causes the AVM to fetch the
    record with the specified fields, but then re-fetch the entire record if an ABL
    statement tries to reference a field that is not there. Also note that when the
    re-fetch happens, any FIND trigger is not run
    again..

    This statement retrieves only the
    Name and Balance
    fields of the Customer table:

    This statement retrieves all fields of the
    Customer table except the Name
    and Balance fields:

    When you specify a field list, the AVM might retrieve
    additional fields or the complete record depending on the type of retrieval operation
    and the DataServer that provides the record. Thus, the AVM:

     Retrieves any additional fields required by the client to
      complete the record selection.
     Retrieves a complete record when the record is fetched with
      EXCLUSIVE-LOCK. This ensures proper operation of updates and the
      local before-image (BI) file. For information on the local BI file, see Manage the OpenEdge Database.
     Retrieves a complete record for DataServers that do not support
      SHARE-LOCK. For more information, see the appropriate DataServer
      guides (Use the Microsoft SQL Data Server and Use the Oracle Data Server).

    Note: Always specify fields that you plan to reference in the field list. Only
    those extra fields that the client requires for record selection are added to the
    specified field list. The AVM distributes record selection between the client and
    server depending on a number of factors that change with each OpenEdge release.
    Therefore, never rely on fields that you did not specify but which the AVM fetches for
    its own needs; they might not always be available. There is no additional cost to
    specify a field in the list that you otherwise expect the AVM to provide.

    This statement retrieves the Customer.CustNum field in addition to those specified in the field lists
    because it is required to satisfy the inner join between the Customer and Order tables:

    However, do not rely on the AVM to always provide such extra
    fields. For reliability, add the CustNum field to
    the Customer field list as follows:

constant: The value of a single component, unique, primary index for the record
    you want. This option is not supported for the OPEN QUERY
    statement:

    The AVM converts this FIND statement with
    the constant option of 1 to the following
    statement:

    The CustNum field is the
    only component of the primary index of the Customer table.

    If you use the constant option,
    you can use it only once in a single Record phrase, and it must precede any other
    options in the Record phrase.

[ LEFT ] OUTER-JOIN: Specifies a left outer join between record and the table (or join) specified by the previous Record phrase(s)
    of an OPEN QUERY statement. A left outer join combines and returns data
    from the specified tables in two ways. First, the records selected for the table (or
    join) on the left side combine with each record selected using the OF
    or WHERE options from the table on the right (record). Second, the records selected for the table (or join) on the left
    side combine with the Unknown value (?) for the fields
    from the table on the right (record) for which no
    records are selected using the OF or WHERE options. The join is ordered
    according to the given sort criteria starting with the left-most table in the query.

    Note: If you specify the OUTER-JOIN option, you must also
    specify the OUTER-JOIN option in all succeeding Record phrases of the query to obtain a left outer join. That is,
    for multiple Record phrases, all joins in the query following your first left outer
    join must also be left outer joins. Otherwise, the result is an inner join for all
    records up to the last inner join in the query. For more information, see Specifying the type of join in OpenEdge Programming Interfaces.

    The
    OUTER-JOIN option is supported only in the OPEN
    QUERY statement and in Record phrases specified after the first Record
    phrase in the OPEN QUERY statement. The LEFT keyword
    is optional with OUTER-JOIN. If you specify
    OUTER-JOIN, you must also specify the OF option,
    WHERE option, or any combination of the OF and
    WHERE options. These options are required to select record (the right-most table) for the specified left
    outer join. For example:

    This query specifies a left outer join between
    Customer and Order, and also between that join and
    OrderLine. Thus, for each Customer record that has
    no orders or has no orders with an OrderNum less
    than 50, the query returns the Customer fields and?
    for all fields of the Order and OrderLine tables. In
    addition, if there are no OrderLine records with ItemNum less than 15 for any selected
    Customer and Order, the query returns? for all fields of OrderLine. Otherwise, it
    returns each Customer record along with its first selected
    Order record and OrderLine record.

    In all statements where multiple Record phrases are allowed
    (including DO, FOR, OPEN QUERY, and
    REPEAT statements), the default join (without the
    OUTER-JOIN option) is an inner join between record and the table (or join) specified by the previous
    Record phrase(s). An inner join returns the records selected for the table (or join)
    on the left side combined with each selected record from the table on the right
    (record). For an inner join, no records are
    returned for the table (or join) on the left for which no record is selected from the
    table on the right (record).

    The following query specifies an inner join between
    Customer and Order, and also between that join and
    OrderLine. Thus, this query only returns Customer
    records that have at least one Order with OPEN QUERY q1
    PRESELECT EACH Customer, FIRST Order OUTER-JOIN OF Customer WHERE Order.OrderNum
    < 50 FIRST OrderLine OUTER-JOIN OF Order WHERE OrderLine.ItemNum <
    15.OrderNum less than 50 that also have
    at least one OrderLine with ItemNum
    less than 15, and it returns just the first such Order and
    OrderLine for each Customer record.

    Note: If you specify a Record phrase as an inner join, the
    current Record phrase and all preceding Record phrases in the
    query participate in contiguous inner joins, even if prior Record phrases specify the
    OUTER-JOIN option. Thus, for multiple Record phrases, all joins in
    the query up to the right-most inner join result in contiguous inner joins.

    For more information on joins in ABL, see Joining tables in OpenEdge
    Programming Interfaces.

OF table: OF table is a shorthand notation,
    and is converted to an expression in the WHERE clause.
    OF relates record to one other
    table specified by a table or buffer name (table OPEN QUERY q1 PRESELECT EACH Customer,). The relationship
    is based on common field names between record and
    table that also participate in a unique index for
    either record or table. When you use OF and the unique index is multi-field, all fields in
    the index participate in the match criteria. A reference to table must appear in a prior joined Record phrase in the same statement, or
    remain in scope from a prior record reading statement, such as a FIND
    statement.

    Note: For the OF keyword to properly detect a
    relationship between two tables, only one such relationship is allowed.

    Note: The compiler chooses an
    index based on the criteria specified with the WHERE,
    USING, OF, or constant options, if
    USE-INDEX was not specified. Note that since the
    OF option is converted to an expression in the
    WHERE clause, that expression is evaluated along with the other
    expressions in the WHERE clause, if any.

    In
    this example, the OF option relates the Order table
    to the Customer table; thus the AVM selects the
    Customer record related to the Order record
    currently in use. The AVM converts the FIND statement with the
    OF option to a FIND statement with the
    WHERE option.

    You can use WHERE to access related tables,
    whether or not the field names of the field or fields that relate the tables have the
    same name. For example:

WHERE expression: Qualifies the records you want to access. The expression is a constant, field name, variable name, or
    expression whose value you want to use to select records. You can use the
    WHERE keyword even if you do not supply an expression. For example:

    The WHERE clause may not work the same way
    against a DataServer as it does against the OpenEdge database. Refer to the
    appropriate DataServer Guide (Use the Microsoft SQL Data Server or Use the Oracle Data Server), for additional information on how this feature
    will perform.

    Note: You cannot reference an OpenEdge BLOB or CLOB field in a
    WHERE clause. However, in OpenEdge DataServer for MS SQL Server, a
    non-legacy BLOB or CLOB server data type can be mapped to the OpenEdge CHARACTER data
    type in a WHERE clause operand as long as the total size of the
    resolved WHERE clause (which might include the CHARACTER-mapped
    value) does not exceed 30000 bytes.

    Note: Use the -noroutineinwhere parameter to
    force the compiler to raise an error, if the WHERE
    expression contains a user-defined function, a class method, or a class property,
    which implements the GET method using ABL
    statements.

    In an OPEN QUERY statement or
    FOR statement, the WHERE clause can use the
    CONTAINS operator to reference a field with a word index. This is
    the syntax for the CONTAINS operator:

    In this syntax, field
    represents a field in which a word index has been defined. The search-expression specifies one or more words to search
    for. It must evaluate to a string with this syntax:

    Each word is a word to
    search for. The ampersand (&) represents a
    logical AND; the vertical line (|),
    exclamation point (!), or caret (^) represent a logical OR. You can use an
    asterisk () as a wildcard, but only at the end of a
    word. Using an asterisk anywhere else in a
    word raises an error.

    Here is an example using the CONTAINS clause:

    You can use parenthesis to establish precedence in the
    search string. For example, the following expression returns a subset of the catalog
    descriptions containing "ski":

    The CONTAINS operator must be used in an
    expression on its own, and not in a subexpression (for example, in an IF
    function).

    You cannot apply the NOT operator
    to a CONTAINS expression.

    Note: The CONTAINS option is not allowed in a
    FIND statement. If the session is started with the Version 6 Query
    (-v6q) parameter, the CONTAINS option is also not allowed in a FOR
    statement.

    Note: For more information, see Compile, make available, and apply the UTF-8
    word-break rules to a database in Internationalize ABL
    Applications.

TENANT-WHERE expression [ SKIP-GROUP-DUPLICATES ]: Allows a super tenant to specify which tenants are to be included in
    a query, where expression is a relational operation,
    or a logical combination of relational operations, that test for a character or integer
    expressions that correspond to a tenant name or tenant ID, respectively. In order to use
    the TENANT-WHERE functionality at run time, you must be a super tenant,
    not a regular tenant.

    You can only use the
    TENANT-WHERE option in the FOR EACH statement or
    option of a query. If you use a TENANT-WHERE in a join, you can have
    only one such option at one level of the join.

    Note: This option does not change the effective tenancy
    for a super tenant. For more information on effective tenancy, see the entry for the
    SET-EFFECTIVE-TENANT function.

    The SKIP-GROUP-DUPLICATES option allows you to skip
    duplicate data for a tenant group.

    If a query has been coded
    with a TENANT-WHERE option, and compiled, but is run by a regular
    tenant, the AVM raises a run-time error.

    Note that any use of
    the TENANT-ID or TENANT-NAME functions in a
    TENANT-WHERE expression must not specify
    the optional database parameter, as the compiler assumes the database is the same as
    for the query in which the TENANT-WHERE option is specified.

    For more information on this option, and examples, see the section on
    Multi-tenant ABL in OpenEdge
    Programming Interfaces.

USE-INDEX index: Identifies the index you want to use while selecting records. If you
    do not use this option, the AVM selects an index to use based on the criteria specified
    with the WHERE, USING, OF, or
    constant options.

TABLE-SCAN: You can use the TABLE-SCAN option as an alternative
    to the USE-INDEX keyword in FOR EACH statements.

    TABLE-SCAN provides the most efficient access method
    when retrieving all rows of a temp-table or a database table in a Type II Storage
    area. TABLE-SCAN returns these rows without using an index. When the
    TABLE-SCAN keyword is used, the AVM only accesses the record block
    instead of both record and index blocks.

    For a table in a Type I storage, the AVM uses the default
    index to perform the scan instead of TABLE-SCAN. If the QryInfo log
    entry is set, the AVM logs message if the TABLE-SCAN keyword is used
    on a Type I Storage area.

    Here is an example using the
    TABLE-SCAN keyword:

    Here mytable is in a
    Type II Storage area. The AVM uses TABLE-SCAN instead of
    WHOLE-INDEX to access the record blocks. The AVM accesses both
    primary index and record blocks, if the WHOLE-INDEX keyword is
    used.

    For more information, see the Search without index section in ABL
    Database Triggers and Indexes.

USING [ FRAME frame ] field [ AND [ FRAME frame ] field]...: One or more names of fields for selecting records. You must have
    previously entered each field you name in this option, usually with a
    PROMPT-FOR statement. The field must be viewed as a fill-in or text
    widget.

    The USING option translates into an
    equivalent WHERE option:

    This FIND statement is the same as this
    statement:

    The CustNum field is a
    non-abbreviated index. However, if the Name field is
    an abbreviated index of the Customer table, the AVM converts the
    FIND statement with the USING option. For
    example:

    The following statement is a result of the previous
    one:

SHARE-LOCK: Tells the AVM to put a SHARE-LOCK on records as they
    are read. Another user can read a record that is share locked, but cannot update it. By
    default, the AVM puts a SHARE-LOCK on a record when it is read (unless
    it uses a CAN-FIND function), and automatically puts an
    EXCLUSIVE-LOCK on a record when it is modified (unless the record is
    already EXCLUSIVE-LOCKed).

    In a
    CAN-FIND function, NO-LOCK is the default. Also,
    CAN-FIND cannot use EXCLUSIVE-LOCK.

    If you use the SHARE-LOCK option and the AVM tries
    to read a record that is EXCLUSIVE-LOCKed by another user, the AVM
    waits to read the record until the EXCLUSIVE-LOCK is released. The
    AVM displays a message to the user of that procedure, identifying the table that is in
    use, the user ID of the user, and the tty of the terminal using the table.

    If you are using a record from a work table, the AVM disregards the
    SHARE-LOCK option.

EXCLUSIVE-LOCK: Tells the AVM to put an EXCLUSIVE-LOCK on records as
    they are read. Other users cannot read or update a record that is
    EXCLUSIVE-LOCKed, except by using the NO-LOCK
    option. They can access that record only when the EXCLUSIVE-LOCK is
    released. The AVM automatically puts a SHARE-LOCK on a record when it
    is read and automatically puts an EXCLUSIVE-LOCK on a record when it is
    updated.

    If a record is read specifying
    EXCLUSIVE-LOCK, or if a lock is automatically changed to
    EXCLUSIVE-LOCK by an update, user's read or update will wait if any
    other user SHARE-LOCKed or EXCLUSIVE-LOCKed the
    record.

    When a procedure tries to use a record that is
    EXCLUSIVE-LOCKed by another user, the AVM displays a message
    identifying the table that is in use, the user ID of the user, and the tty of the
    terminal using the table.

    If you are using a record from a work
    table, the AVM disregards the EXCLUSIVE-LOCK option. Also,
    CAN-FIND cannot use the EXCLUSIVE-LOCK
    option.

    Specifying EXCLUSIVE-LOCK causes the
    AVM to retrieve complete records, even when the record is specified with field-list.

NO-LOCK: Tells the AVM to put no locks on records as they are read, and to
    read a record even if another user has it EXCLUSIVE-LOCKed.

    Another user can read and update a record that is not locked. By
    default, the AVM puts a SHARE-LOCK on a record when it is read
    (unless it uses a CAN-FIND function, which defaults to
    NO-LOCK), and automatically puts an EXCLUSIVE-LOCK
    on a record when it is updated (unless the record is already
    EXCLUSIVE-LOCKed). A record that has been read
    NO-LOCK must be reread before it can be updated.

    If a procedure finds a record and it places it in a buffer
    using NO-LOCK and you then re-find that record using
    NO-LOCK, the AVM does not reread the record. Instead, it uses the
    copy of the record that is already stored in the buffer. To make sure the AVM gets a
    fresh copy of the record from the database, you must release all
    NO-LOCK buffers referencing the record or retrieve the record with
    EXCLUSIVE-LOCK. Note that you can use the Reread Nolock (-rereadnolock) startup parameter to change this default
    behavior.

    When you read records with NO-LOCK,
    you have no guarantee of the overall consistency of those records because another user
    might be in the process of changing them. When values are assigned to indexed fields
    for a newly created record or are modified in an existing record, the index is
    immediately updated to reflect the change. However the copy of the data record in the
    buffers used by the database server might not be updated until later in the
    transaction. For example, the following procedure might display a CustNum of 0 if another user's active transaction has
    created a record and assigned a value to the indexed field CustNum that is greater than 100:

    If you are using a record from a work table, the AVM
    disregards the NO-LOCK option.

NO-PREFETCH: Specifies that only one record is sent across the network at a time.
    If you specify field-list, only the specified fields
    and any additional fields required for record selection are sent. If you do not specify
    this option, the AVM can send more than one record from the server to the client in each
    network packet.

Examples

In the r-recph.p procedure, there
are two Record phrases that make an inner join between the Customer and
Order tables.

r-recph.p

Using these Record phrases, the FOR EACH block reads a
Customer record only if it has a CreditLimit value greater than 50000 and at least one Order
record associated with it.

r-recph2.p

In the r-recph2.p procedure, there
is one Record phrase:

Using the zip index named country-post rather than the CustNum index (the primary index for the
Customer table), the FIND statement reads only those
Customer records that have a Name that
begins with an s. The FIND also places an EXCLUSIVE-LOCK
on each record as it is read. This lock is released at the end of the
REPEAT block.

In the output of this procedure, all the Customer names
begin with s and the customers are displayed in order by country and then postal code.

Notes

 Specifying a field list (field-list) for record can increase the
  performance of remote (network) record retrieval substantially over specifying record alone.
 You cannot specify field lists or joins in a FIND
  statement, or specify field lists in an OPEN QUERY statement.
 You cannot reference a BLOB or CLOB field in a WHERE
  clause.
 Temp-tables and work tables can be used in join conditions specified
  with the OF option as long as the OF option requirements
  identified earlier in this section have been satisfied.
 Do not compare case-sensitive data with case-insensitive data in a
  WHERE expression. The AVM both cannot determine the results and does
  not raise the ERROR condition if you specify data with mixed case sensitivity in selection
  criteria because:
• Mixed case sensitivity in selection criteria is handled differently
    by different DataServers.
• Mixed case-sensitivity results for the same DataServer can be
    different depending on whether the query is resolved on the client or the server.
• Some national languages do not support the concept of case
    sensitivity.

  Thus, such queries cannot be reliably resolved in any
  way.
 For SpeedScript, the only invalid option is USING
  FRAME.
 In a class definition, ABL treats the default buffer of a database
  table that you reference as an instance data member of the class. Therefore, you cannot
  access a default database buffer from a static member of a class, such as a static query
  or method; instead, you can define an alternate static buffer data member to access
  records of the database table from another static class member.
• You can reference any of the following functions and attributes in the
  expression of a WHERE or
  TENANT-WHERE option as long as the buffer specified for the function or
  attribute is not the same as the buffer of the query or
  FOR EACH statement:
• BUFFER-GROUP-ID attribute
• BUFFER-GROUP-ID function
• BUFFER-GROUP-NAME attribute
• BUFFER-GROUP-NAME function
• BUFFER-TENANT-ID attribute
• BUFFER-TENANT-ID function
• BUFFER-TENANT-NAME attribute
• BUFFER-TENANT-NAME function

See also

DEFINE QUERY statement, DO statement, FIND statement, FOR statement, OPEN QUERY statement, REPEAT statement




REPOSITION statement

Repositions the cursor associated with a specific query. The query must be
associated with a browse widget or defined with the SCROLLING option. The
next record to be retrieved is the record following the cursor position.

Syntax

query: The name of the query to reposition. The query must be open.

TO ROWID rowid1[, rowid2]... [FOR TENANT tenant-expression] [NO-ERROR]: Repositions the join levels of a query to the corresponding
    ROWID expressions (rowid1,
    rowid2, and so on) that you specify, where
    rowid1 represents the ROWID for
    the top level of the join, rowid2 represents the
    ROWID for the next level of the join, and so on. You can specify
    any number of ROWID expressions up to the number of join levels. If
    you specify fewer ROWID expressions than the number of join levels,
    the AVM repositions the join levels of the query to the corresponding
    ROWID expressions you specify, but positions the remaining join
    levels for the unspecified ROWID expressions arbitrarily.

    The FOR TENANT option is useful only for a
    multi-tenant database, and primarily one with a connection identity that has super
    tenant access. If the user has a super-tenant connection identity and you do not specify this option, the query repositions to data owned
    by the effective tenant. If you do specify this option, the
    query repositions to data owned by the regular tenant identified by tenant-expression.

    If the user has a regular-tenant connection identity, and you specify
    this option, tenant-expression must match the
    tenancy of the connection identity. Otherwise, the statement raises
    ERROR.

    If tenant-expression evaluates to
    an integer, the value must be a valid tenant ID for a regular tenant or zero (0) for the default tenant. If tenant-expression evaluates to a character string, the value must be a
    valid tenant name for a regular or "Default" for the
    default tenant. Otherwise, the statement raises ERROR.

TO RECID recid[ NO-ERROR ]: Similar to the TO ROWID option, except that the value
    recid is an expression that evaluates to a
    RECID value, and you can specify only one recid. Supported only for
    backward compatibility.

    NO-ERROR suppresses any error
    messages that result from specifying an illegal value or a value that does not
    identify any records returned by the query. See the NO-ERROR entry
    below for more information.

NO-ERROR: The NO-ERROR option is used to
    prevent the statement from raising ERROR and
    displaying error messages.

TO ROW n: Repositions the cursor to before the specified row in the result list
    of the query. The value n must be an integer
    expression that identifies a row in the result list. You cannot use this option with a
    query opened with the INDEXED-REPOSITION option.

FORWARDS n: Moves the cursor from its current position in the result list to a
    new position n records forward, where n represents an integer expression.

    REPOSITION FORWARDS always places the cursor between two rows. For
    example:

     If the cursor is on a row—say, row 5—REPOSITION FORWARDS
      1 moves the cursor to row 6, then to half way between rows 6 and 7. From
      this position, GET PREVIOUS moves the cursor to row 6, while
      GET-NEXT moves the cursor to row 7.
     If the cursor is already between two rows—say, between rows 5 and
      6— REPOSITION FORWARDS 1 moves the cursor to half way between rows
      6 and 7. From this position, GET PREVIOUS moves the cursor to row
      6, while GET-NEXT moves the cursor to row 7.

BACKWARDS n: Moves the cursor from its current position in the result list to a
    new position n records back, where n represents an integer expression.

    REPOSITION BACKWARDS always places the cursor between two rows.
    For example:

     If the cursor is on a row—say, row 5—REPOSITION BACKWARDS
      1 moves the cursor to row 4, then to half way between rows 4 and 5. From
      this position, GET PREVIOUS moves the cursor to row 4,
      while GET-NEXT moves the cursor to row 5.
     If the cursor is already between two rows—say, between rows 5 and
      6— REPOSITION BACKWARDS 1 moves the cursor to half way between rows
      4 and 5. From this position, GET PREVIOUS moves the cursor to row
      4, while GET-NEXT moves the cursor to row 5.

Example

The following example uses the REPOSITION statement to
move forward or backward within a query:

r-repos.p

Notes

 The REPOSITION statement does not fetch a record,
  except when the query is associated with a browse. The REPOSITION
  statement positions the cursor for the query so that a subsequent GET
  NEXT statement fetches the specified record, and GET PREV
  fetches the record before it.
 After executing a REPOSITON statement that involves a
  multi-table join, the bottom-most buffer will not be available, as is the case for a query
  built on a single table. You then need to execute a GET NEXT statement to
  make the row you want available. The availability of non-bottom level buffers following
  the REPOSITION, however, is undetermined. That is, non-bottom level
  buffers may or may not be available.
 If you reposition a query associated with a browse widget, the
  browse widget data is refreshed with the record after the new position
  at the top.
 If you try to position the cursor outside the list of records that
  satisfy the query, the AVM does not raise the
  ERROR condition. If you try to position the cursor before the first
  record, the AVM positions the query to just before the first record. If you try to
  position the cursor beyond the last record, the AVM positions it just beyond the last
  record.
 The REPOSITION statement might be slow if the record
  you position to has not yet been fetched.
 The REPOSITION TO ROWID statement might be especially
  slow. If the record has not yet been fetched, the AVM performs a series of GET
  NEXT operations until the record is found. You can optimize the performance of
  a REPOSITION TO ROWID statement by opening the query using the
  INDEXED-REPOSITION option of the OPEN QUERY
  statement.
 The INDEXED-REPOSITION option of the OPEN
  QUERY statement, followed by REPOSITION TO ROWID or
  GET LAST, causes the query results list to change dramatically.
  Subsequent use of the CURRENT-RESULT-ROW or NUM-RESULTS
  functions might produce unknown or unexpected results.
 The order of the records in the query is determined by the options
  specified in the OPEN QUERY statement.
 For SpeedScript, the on-endkey-phrase and
  the on-quit-phrase do not apply.
 When specifying the FOR TENANT option, the AVM looks
  up tenant-expression in the database with a share
  lock. The AVM waits 60 seconds to get the share lock and raises ERROR if
  it fails to obtain the share lock in that amount of time. The AVM releases the share lock
  immediately after successfully fetching the row. This share lock is released even if the
  statement is called while in the scope of a transaction.
• When you execute an OPEN QUERY or REPOSITION statement for a query associated with a
  browse widget, the browse is automatically adjusted to remain in sync with the query.
  However, when you execute a GET statement or method, the browse is not adjusted. You can
  use the GET statement, or one of the GET methods (GET-CURRENT/FIRST/LAST/NEXT/PREV) to
  perform background processing without affecting the browse, but you must execute a
  REPOSITION statement or one of the REPOSITION methods
  (REPOSITION-BACKWARD/FORWARD/TO-ROW/TO-ROWID) to put the query and browse back in
  sync.

See also

CLOSE QUERY statement, CURRENT-RESULT-ROW function, DEFINE QUERY statement, GET statement, NO-ERROR option, NUM-RESULTS function, OPEN QUERY statement




