CREATE CLIENT-PRINCIPAL statement

Creates an instance of a client-principal object
at run time in the INITIAL state (see the LOGIN-STATE attribute entry).
Each client-principal instance is a security token that contains
user credentials specific to one user login session. This login
session can be used to set the user identity for one or more ABL
sessions, one or more database connections, or an entire ABL application.
This user identity must be defined in a security domain that is
registered in a trusted domain registry that is used to authenticate
or validate that identity.

Note: You use a client-principal
object with the SET-CLIENT() method or SET-DB-CLIENT function
to set the user identity for an ABL session or OpenEdge database.
You can set only one user identity at any one point in time for
each ABL session or database connection. However, you can maintain multiple
client-principal instances for any number of user identities that
you need to set and maintain during an application.

Syntax

client-principal-handle: A variable of type HANDLE that contains the handle to the client-principal
    object.

IN WIDGET-POOL widget-pool-name: An expression of type CHARACTER that evaluates, at run time, to the name of the widget
    pool in which the client-principal is created.

    Note: Widget pool names are
    not case sensitive.

 To use a client-principal object in the INITIAL state, you must set
  the required attributes to store the user's credentials and provide
  access to a domain registry that you trust to authenticate or validate
  the identity it represents for the ABL session or a database connection:
• The local domain registry for a database connection is automatically
    loaded by OpenEdge and available to verify any identity assigned
    to the connection. Using OpenEdge data administration tools, you
    can also configure the OpenEdge database to ignore its local domain
    registry after the initial connection is established, and use the
    ABL session domain registry to securely set its connection identity.
    This allows multiple database connections to share a single domain
    registry to validate and set their connection identities
• You can use the LOAD-DOMAINS() method on the SECURITY-POLICY
    system handle to load the ABL session domain registry from the local
    domain registry of a connected OpenEdge database. This automatically
    prevents the registration or loading of domains from outside the
    this database, but enables all database connections to share the
    same registry built from a single connected database. This method
    creates a session domain registry that can be used to authenticate
    or validate identity for both multi-tenant and non-multi-tenant
    database connections.
• If you have not already loaded the ABL session registry using LOAD-DOMAINS(),
    you can use the REGISTER-DOMAIN() method on the SECURITY-POLICY
    system handle to register and load domains individually into the
    session domain registry. You can then prevent additional domains
    from being loaded into the session registry using the LOCK-REGISTRATION()
    method on the SECURITY-POLICY system handle. An ABL session domain
    registry loaded and locked using REGISTER-DOMAIN() and LOCK-REGISTRATION()
    does not allow you to authenticate or validate identity for multi-tenant
    database connections. These methods only allow you to build a session
    domain registry that can be shared among non-multi-tenant database
    connections.
 If you do not specify a widget pool name, the object is created
  in the Session unnamed widget pool (not in the closest unnamed widget
  pool). The object goes away when its widget pool goes away or when
  you delete it using the DELETE OBJECT statement.

See also

Client-principal object handle, LOAD-DOMAINS() method, LOCK-REGISTRATION() method, REGISTER-DOMAIN() method, SET-CLIENT() method, SET-DB-CLIENT function




ENCODE function

Encodes a source character string and returns
the encoded character string result.

Syntax

expression: An expression that results in a character string value. If you
    use a constant, you must enclose it in quotation marks (" ").

Example

This
procedure uses the ENCODE function to disguise a password that the user
enters, and then displays the encoded password:

r-encode.p

Notes

 You
  can use the ENCODE function to encode a string that contains double-byte
  characters.
 The ENCODE function performs a one-way encoding operation that you
  cannot reverse. It is useful for storing scrambled copies of passwords in
  a database. It is impossible to determine the original password
  by examining the database. However, a procedure can prompt a user
  for a password, encode it, and compare the result with the stored,
  encoded password to determine if the user supplied the correct password.
 In order to ensure reliable results, the original encoding and
  any subsequent encoded comparisons must run in the same code page.
  In environments with multiple code pages, Progress Software Corporation strongly recommends
  that programs use the CODEPAGE-CONVERT function so that occurrences
  of the ENCODE function related to the same strings run in the same
  code page.
 The output of the ENCODE function is 16 characters long. Make
  sure the target field size is at least 16 characters long.




ENCRYPT function

Converts source data into a particular format, and returns a MEMPTR containing the
encrypted data (a binary byte stream).

You must use the same cryptographic algorithm, initialization
vector, and encryption key values to encrypt and decrypt the same data instance.

Syntax

Note: The tag and aad
parameters are applicable only to the AESGCM128,
AESGCM192 and AESGCM256 encryption
algorithms. They are not applicable to other supported encryption algorithms.

data-to-encrypt: The source data to encrypt. The value may be of type
    CHARACTER, LONGCHAR, RAW, or MEMPTR.

encrypt-key: An optional RAW expression that evaluates to the name of the
    encryption key (a binary value) to use in encrypting the specified data. If
    you specify the Unknown value (?), the
    current value of the SYMMETRIC-ENCRYPTION-KEY attribute is
    used. If the value of the SYMMETRIC-ENCRYPTION-KEY
    attribute is also the Unknown value (?),
    the AVM generates a run-time error.

    You can generate this
    encryption key, based on the PKCS#5/RFC 2898 standard, by using either
    the GENERATE-PBE-KEY function or the GENERATE-RANDOM-KEY function.

    Note: If you use the
    GENERATE-RANDOM-KEY function to generate an
    encryption key, be sure to invoke the function before invoking the
    ENCRYPT function (not within the
    ENCRYPT function, which would render the key
    irretrievable).

    The AVM compares the size of
    the specified encryption key to the key size specified by the
    cryptographic algorithm. If the key sizes are inconsistent, the AVM
    generates a run-time error.

    You are responsible
    for generating, storing, and transporting this value.

iv-value: An optional RAW expression that evaluates to an
    initialization vector value to use with the specified encryption key in the
    encryption operation. Using an initialization vector value increases the
    strength of the specified encryption key (that is, it makes the key more
    unpredictable). If you specify the Unknown value (?), the current value of the
    SYMMETRIC-ENCRYPTION-IV attribute is used.

algorithm: An optional CHARACTER expression that evaluates to the name
    of the symmetric cryptographic algorithm to use in encrypting the specified
    data instance. If you specify the Unknown value (?), the current value of the
    SYMMETRIC-ENCRYPTION-ALGORITHM attribute is used.

    For a list the supported cryptographic algorithms, see
    the SYMMETRIC-SUPPORT attribute
    reference entry.

tag (Authentication Tag): For AES\GCM encryption, a mandatory MEMPTR expression of a
    cryptographic checksum generated on the unencrypted data and additional
    authenticated data. It is designed to reveal both accidental errors and the
    intentional modification of the data.

aad (Additional Authenticated Data): For AES\GCM encryption, an optional RAW expression of input
    data that is authenticated but not encrypted.

See also

DECRYPT function, SECURITY-POLICY system handle




GENERATE-PBE-KEY function

Generates a password-based encryption key,
based on the PKCS#5/RFC 2898 standard, and returns the key as a
RAW value.

Syntax

password: The password (a binary value) to use in generating the encryption key.
    This value may be of type CHARACTER, LONGCHAR, RAW, or MEMPTR. If
    the password contains a CHARACTER or LONGCHAR value, the AVM converts
    it to UTF-8 (which ensures a consistent value regardless of code
    page settings) before using it to generate the encryption key. To
    avoid this automatic conversion, specify a RAW or MEMPTR value.
    If you specify the Unknown value (?), the result is the Unknown value (?).

salt: An optional RAW expression that evaluates to the salt value
    (a random series of 8 bytes) to use in generating the encryption
    key. If you specify the Unknown value (?), the current
    value of the ENCRYPTION-SALT attribute is used. If no salt value
    is specified in the ENCRYPTION-SALT attribute, no salt value is
    used.

    You can also use the GENERATE-PBE-SALT function to generate
    a salt value, which can help to ensure that the password key value
    is unique.

    If specified, this salt value is combined with
    the password value and hashed some number of times to generate a
    password-based encryption key (using the algorithm specified by
    the PBE-HASH-ALGORITHM attribute and the number of iterations specified
    by the PBE-KEY-ROUNDS attribute).

Notes

 You
  are responsible for generating, storing, and transporting these
  values.
 The size of the generated encryption key is determined by the
  cryptographic algorithm specified by the SYMMETRIC-ENCRYPTION-ALGORITHM
  attribute.
 Before invoking this function, be sure to set the PBE-HASH-ALGORITHM
  attribute to the name of the hash algorithm to use.
 If you call this function multiple times with the same password
  string, hash algorithm, number of iterations, and salt value, the
  same binary key is generated each time.

See also

GENERATE-PBE-SALT function, GENERATE-RANDOM-KEY function, MESSAGE-DIGEST function, SECURITY-POLICY system handle




GENERATE-PBE-SALT function

Generates a random salt value (a series of
8 bytes) to use in generating an encryption key, and returns the
salt value as a RAW value. Using a salt value can help to ensure
that a password key value is unique.

Syntax

Notes

 This
  salt value is combined with a password value and hashed some number
  of times to generate a password-based encryption key (using the
  algorithm specified by the PBE-HASH-ALGORITHM attribute and the
  number of iterations specified by the PBE-KEY-ROUNDS attribute).
 You are responsible for generating, storing, and transporting
  this value.

See also

GENERATE-PBE-KEY function, MESSAGE-DIGEST function, SECURITY-POLICY system handle




GENERATE-RANDOM-KEY function

Generates a pseudorandom (rather than a truly random)
series of bytes to use as an encryption key, and returns the key
as a RAW value.

Syntax

Notes

 You
  are responsible for generating, storing, and transporting this value.
 The size of the generated encryption key is determined by the
  cryptographic algorithm specified by the SYMMETRIC-ENCRYPTION-ALGORITHM
  attribute.
• The Alternate Random Number Generator (-rand)
  startup parameter setting has no effect on this function.

See also

GENERATE-PBE-KEY function, SECURITY-POLICY system handle




MD5-DIGEST function

Hashes the specified data using the RSA Message Digest Hash Algorithm (MD5), and returns a 16-byte binary message digest value as a RAW value.

Note: This function is provided for backward compatibility only and
should not be used in new development. Existing applications and data storage should migrate
away from this function as soon as possible.

Syntax

data-to-hash: The source data to hash. The data may be of type CHARACTER, LONGCHAR,
    RAW, or MEMPTR. If the data is a CHARACTER or LONGCHAR value, the
    AVM converts it to UTF-8 (which ensures a consistent value regardless
    of code page settings). To avoid this automatic conversion, specify
    a RAW or MEMPTR value.

hash-key: An optional key value to use in the hash operation. The key
    may be of type CHARACTER, LONGCHAR, RAW, or MEMPTR. If the key is a
    CHARACTER or LONGCHAR value, the AVM converts it to UTF-8 (which
    ensures a consistent value regardless of code page settings). To avoid
    this automatic conversion, specify a RAW or MEMPTR value. This key
    value is combined with the source data before the hash operation begins.

    If either data-to-hash or hash-key is the Unknown value (?), then the Unknown value (?) is
    returned from the function.

    If
    the hash-key value contains a null character, the
    null character is included in the hash operation.

See also

MESSAGE-DIGEST function, SHA1-DIGEST function




SETUSERID function

Authenticates a user identity for a specified database connection, verifying
that the user ID and password supplied to the SETUSERID function match a user account in the
User table of the database. (This restriction does not
apply to authentication with an STS-enabled database. See notes below for more information.)
If they match, the database connection is set to the specified user identity and the
function returns a TRUE value. If the database is multi-tenant, is also sets the user's
tenancy.

If
the user ID is not in the User table or the password
is incorrect, SETUSERID returns a FALSE value and does not assign
the user identity to the database connection. You can also check
the ERROR-STATUS system handle for any messages returned.

Note:

Using this function overrides user identity previously set for the database connection by
either the SECURITY-POLICY:SET-CLIENT() method or the SET-DB-CLIENT function.

This function authenticates user identities only against user accounts defined in the
User table of a connected OpenEdge RDBMS. To authenticate against
additional OpenEdge-supported and application-defined authentication systems, use the
SET-CLIENT() method or the SET-DB-CLIENT function, instead.

Syntax

userid: A literal value, field name, variable name, or expression
    that results in a character value that represents the user's user
    ID. If you use a literal value, you must enclose it in quotation
    marks ("").

    If the user is defined in a non-default
    domain, this value must be a fully qualified user ID, including
    both the non-qualified user ID and domain separated by a domain
    delimiter (@). If the user is defined in the default
    (blank) domain, only a non-qualified user ID (without a domain delimiter)
    must be specified. For more information on specifying a fully qualified
    user ID, see the reference entry for the QUALIFIED-USER-ID attribute.

    Note: The default blank domain
    provides backward compatibility with OpenEdge releases that do
    not support domains as part of a user's identity.

password: A literal value, field name, variable name, or other character expression
    that results in a character value that represents the user's password.
    If you use a literal value, you must enclose it in quotation marks ("").

    Alternatively, you can encode the password using the ENCRYPT-AUDIT-MAC-KEY() method. For
    more information, see Password encoding in OpenEdge Programming Interfaces.

logical-dbname: The logical name of the database on whose connection you want
    to check and set the user identity. The logical database name must
    be a character string enclosed in quotes, or a character expression.
    If you do not specify this argument, the compiler inserts the name
    of the database that is connected when the procedure is compiled.
    If you omit this argument and more than one database is connected,
    ABL raises an error.

Notes

 Within
  a transaction on a:
• Multi-tenant database — Any attempt
    to set an identity for the connection that changes the current database tenancy
    raises a run-time error.
• Non-multi-tenant database — As a best practice, Progress
    Software recommends that you not set a new identity for the
    connection.
 To assign a user identity while making a database connection,
  use the CONNECT statement.
 After a user identity is set for a database connection, the
  AVM uses that identity to determine if the user has permission to
  access tables and fields in that particular database.
 This function has the following restrictions:
• It does not generate any audit events, such as for login and
    logout.
• It can change the user identity for only one database connection at
    a time.
• The domain of the user identity you want to set must be configured
    to use the authentication system, oeusertable.
• The domain of the user identity you want to set must be enabled in
    the User table of the connected database.

  Note: When using an STS-enabled database, the oeusertable authentication system is not required, and accounts do not have
  to be in the User table.
 Under the following conditions, the SETUSERID function returns
  a value of FALSE and does not assign a user identity to the user:
• There are no entries in the User table.
• There is no User record with the same user
    ID as the one supplied with the SETUSERID function.
• The password supplied with the SETUSERID function does not match
    the password in the User table record of the specified
    user ID.
 When using the SETUSERID function, ABL returns a compiler error under
  the following conditions:
• There is no database connected.
• The logical-dbname argument is omitted, and
    more than one database is currently connected.
 When specifying the logical-dbname argument,
  you must provide the name of the logical database, not the physical database.
 SETUSERID encodes the password argument and
  then compares the result with the value stored in the User.password field
  of the User table.
 After SETUSERID returns a value of TRUE and assigns the authenticated
  user ID to a database connection:
• ABL uses that user ID when
    the user compiles procedures.
• Subsequent invocations of the USERID function for the same database
    connection return the assigned user ID.
 If the root user ID does not exist in the User table,
  SETUSERID returns a value of FALSE when supplied with a userid of
  root. If the _User table does have a root entry,
  the user who assumes that user ID has all the privileges associated
  with the root user ID on UNIX.
 You must create and enable a blank user ID ("") if
  you want to set the user ID to a null value.
 See Learn about Identity Management, OpenEdge Programming Interfaces, and Manage
  the OpenEdge Database for more information on user privileges.
 Once an initial database connection is established, you can
  also use the SET-CLIENT() method (on
  the SECURITY-POLICY system handle) or the SET-DB-CLIENT function to set the user identity for the connection.
 Any database connection whose user identity is set using this
  function locks out the SET-CLIENT() method from setting
  an identity for that connection. To unlock and allow the SET-CLIENT()
  method to set the identity for a locked database connection, call
  the SET-DB-CLIENT function for the connection, passing the Unknown value (?) for
  its client-principal-handle parameter. This unlocking
  of a database connection leaves the current connection identity
  unchanged.
 For each user identity authenticated by the SETUSERID function,
  the function creates a sealed security token containing the user
  credentials for the database connection, which you can return as
  a client-principal object using the GET-DB-CLIENT function. You can then use this sealed client-principal in
  a single sign-on (SSO) operation to set the identity of another
  database connection or ABL session.
 This function returns FALSE and with messages returned in the ERROR-STATUS system handle if:
• The format of the non-qualified user
    ID or domain name is invalid or the value has contains characters
    outside of the restricted user ID or domain name character sets
    (see the QUALIFIED-USER-ID attribute entry)
• Multiple databases are connected and logical-dbname is
    not passed or resolves to the Unknown value (?)
• Multiple databases are connected and logical-dbname does
    not refer to a connected database
• This function does not attempt set the connection identity for
  the foreign data source of a DataServer connection. However, it
  does attempt to set the connection identity for the OpenEdge schema
  holder database.

See also

Client-principal object handle, CONNECT statement, ENCRYPT-AUDIT-MAC-KEY() method, SET-CLIENT() method, SET-DB-CLIENT function, USERID function




SHA1-DIGEST function

Hashes the specified data using the United States Government Secure Hash
Algorithm (SHA-1), and returns a 20-byte binary message digest value as a RAW value.

Note: This function is provided for backward compatibility only and should
not be used in new development. Existing applications and data storage should migrate away
from this function as soon as possible.

Syntax

data-to-hash: The source data to hash. The data may be of type CHARACTER, LONGCHAR,
    RAW, or MEMPTR. If the data is a CHARACTER or LONGCHAR value, the
    AVM converts it to UTF-8 (which ensures a consistent value regardless
    of code page settings). To avoid this automatic conversion, specify
    a RAW or MEMPTR value.

hash-key: An optional key value to use in the hash operation. The key
    may be of type CHARACTER, LONGCHAR, RAW, or MEMPTR. If the key is a
    CHARACTER or LONGCHAR value, the AVM converts it to UTF-8 (which
    ensures a consistent value regardless of code page settings). To avoid
    this automatic conversion, specify a RAW or MEMPTR value. This key
    value is combined with the source data before the hash operation begins.

    If either data-to-hash or hash-key is the Unknown value (?), then the Unknown value (?) is
    returned from the function.

    If
    the hash-key value contains a null character, the
    null character is included in the hash operation.

Note: This function is not compatible with HMAC-SHA-1.

See also

MD5-DIGEST function, MESSAGE-DIGEST function




USERID function

Returns a character string representing the
user ID for the specified database connection identity.

Syntax

logical-dbname: The logical name of the database from whose connection identity
    you want to retrieve the user ID. The logical database name must
    be a character string enclosed in quotes, or a character expression.
    If you do not specify this argument, the compiler inserts the name
    of the database that is connected when the procedure is compiled.
    If you omit this argument and more than one database is connected,
    ABL raises an error.

Example

This
one-line procedure displays the current user ID for the database
with the DICTDB alias:

r-userid.p

Notes

 The
  user ID returned by this function can be set for a database connection
  identity that is specified on the command line or when executing
  the CONNECT statement,
  the SECURITY-POLICY:SET-CLIENT() method,
  the SET-DB-CLIENT function, or the SETUSERID function.
 For a single-tenant database connection, the user ID returned
  by the USERID function is non-qualified; for a multi-tenant database
  connection, it is fully qualified, as shown in the following table.

  Table 1. Values returned from the USERID function

  The user ID returned by this function is always
  consistent with the user ID used in database identity audit trails,
  as well as for applying ABL table and field permissions and ABL
  Security Administrator rights.
 When using the USERID function, ABL returns a compiler error under
  the following conditions:
• There is no database connected
• You omit the logical-dbname argument and
    more than one database is currently connected
 When specifying the logical-dbname argument,
  you must provide the name of the logical database, not the physical database.
 After ABL starts running, you can use the SET-CLIENT()
  method, the SET-DB-CLIENT function, or the SETUSERID function to
  change the current user ID associated with an existing database
  connection.
 ABL user IDs in _User table accounts are case insensitive.
• See Learn about Identity Management, OpenEdge Programming Interfaces, and Manage
  the OpenEdge Database for more information on user identity.

See also

CAN-DO function, CONNECT statement, QUALIFIED-USER-ID attribute, SET-CLIENT() method, SET-DB-CLIENT function, SETUSERID function, USER-ID attribute




