CURRENT-LANGUAGE function

Returns the current value of the CURRENT-LANGUAGE
variable.

Note: Does not apply to SpeedScript programming.

Syntax

Example

The
following example displays a message indicating the setting of your CURRENT-LANGUAGE:

r-curlng.p

Notes

 An
  r-code file may contain several text segments each associated with
  a different language. The setting of the CURRENT-LANGUAGE variable
  determines from which r-code text segment the AVM reads character-string
  constants.
 If the value of CURRENT-LANGUAGE is a quoted question mark ("?"),
  the AVM reads character-strings from the default text segment.
 The value of CURRENT-LANGUAGE might be a comma-separated list
  of language names. If so, the AVM searches r-code for a text segment that
  matches the first language in the list. If that segment is not found,
  then it searches for a text segment for the next entry in the list
  until a segment is found.
 You can initialize the CURRENT-LANGUAGE variable with the Language
  (-lng) parameter.
• The behavior of CURRENT-LANGUAGE when one procedure calls another
  is as follows:
• If a procedure changes the value of CURRENT-LANGUAGE,
    calls from the procedure to the CURRENT-LANGUAGE function return
    the name of the new language, but the procedure continues to use
    the character strings of the original language.
• If the procedure then runs another procedure, when the called procedure
    gets control, calls from the called procedure to the CURRENT-LANGUAGE
    function return the name of the new language, and the called procedure
    uses the character strings of the new language.
• When the called procedure finishes and control returns to the original
    procedure, calls from the original procedure to the CURRENT-LANGUAGE
    function return the name of the new language, but the original procedure
    continues to use the character strings of the original language.

See also

COMPILE statement, CURRENT-LANGUAGE statement




CURRENT-LANGUAGE statement

Sets the CURRENT-LANGUAGE variable for the current ABL
session.

Note: Does not apply to SpeedScript
programming.

Syntax

string-expression: A character-string expression that specifies a language name
    or a comma-separated list of language names.

Example

This example procedure uses the CURRENT-LANGUAGE function
to find the current language, prompts the user to choose a new language, and then uses the
CURRENT-LANGUAGE statement to reset and display the name of the new
current language:

r-chglng.p

Notes

 The value of CURRENT-LANGUAGE might be a
  comma-separated list of language names. If so, the AVM searches r-code for a text segment
  that matches the first language in the list. If that segment is not found, then it
  searches for a text segment for the next entry in the list until a segment is found.
 You can initialize the CURRENT-LANGUAGE variable with
  the Language (-lng) parameter.
• The behavior of CURRENT-LANGUAGE when one procedure
  calls another is as follows:
• If a procedure changes the value of
    CURRENT-LANGUAGE, calls from the procedure to the
    CURRENT-LANGUAGE function return the name of the new language, but
    the procedure continues to use the character strings of the original language.
• If the procedure then runs another procedure, when the called
    procedure gets control, calls from the called procedure to the
    CURRENT-LANGUAGE function return the name of the new language, and
    the called procedure uses the character strings of the new language.
• When the called procedure finishes and control returns to the
    original procedure, calls from the original procedure to the
    CURRENT-LANGUAGE function return the name of the new language, but
    the original procedure continues to use the character strings of the original
    language.

See also

COMPILE statement, CURRENT-LANGUAGE function




GET-KEY-VALUE statement

(Windows only)

Searches
the current environment for a particular key and places its value into
a particular data item.

Note: Does not apply to
SpeedScript programming.

Syntax

SECTION section-name: A CHARACTER expression that specifies the name of the section
    that contains the key of interest.

    In initialization files,
    section names appear in square brackets([]). When you specify a
    section name in the GET-KEY-VALUE statement, omit the square brackets.

KEY key-name: A CHARACTER expression that specifies the name of the key of
    interest.

    If you specify the Unknown value (?) or
    the empty string (""), GET-KEY-VALUE returns a comma-separated list
    of all keys in the section you specified.

DEFAULT: Tells GET-KEY-VALUE to use the default key of section section-name. 

    Some
    applications store data in the registry under the default key of
    a section. This option lets you retrieve this data. For an example,
    see the EXAMPLES section of this entry.

    This option applies
    only to the registry and not to initialization files.

VALUE key-value: The name of a CHARACTER variable to hold the value of the key
    of interest.

Examples

If
the current environment resides in the registry, the GET-KEY-VALUE statement:
Searches the current environment for the subkey MYSECTION
Searches MYSECTION for the value name MYKEY
Assigns the value of MYKEY to the variable MYVARIABLE

If
the current environment resides in an initialization file, the GET-KEY-VALUE
statement:
Searches the section MYSECTION for the key
   MYKEY
Assigns the value of MYKEY to the variable MYVARIABLE as shown
   in the following example:

If the current environment is the
registry, the GET-KEY-VALUE statement:
Searches the current
   environment for the key MYKEY
Assigns the value of MYKEY to the variable MYVARIABLE

If
the current environment resides in an initialization file, the following example
returns a comma-separated list of all section names in the initialization file:

If the current environment resides in the registry,
the GET-KEY-VALUE statement:
Searches the current environment
   for the subkey MYSECTION
Returns a comma-separated list of all value names in MYSECTION

If
the current environment resides in an initialization file, the GET-KEY-VALUE
statement:
Searches the current environment for the section
   MYSECTION
Returns a comma-separated list of all key names in MYSECTION;
   for example:

If the current environment resides
in the registry, the following examples return a comma-separated
list of subkeys under the current environment location and all value
names directly under the current environment location. The delimiter
@value@ separates the subkey names from the value names.

If
the current environment resides in an initialization file, the following examples
return a comma-separated list of all section names in the initialization file:

If the current environment resides in the registry,
the GET-KEY-VALUE statement:
Searches the current environment
   for the subkey MYAPP
Assigns the value of the default key under MYAPP to the variable MYVARIABLE

If
the current environment resides in an initialization file, the following example
returns an error:

Notes

 Environments typically consist of sections, each of which can contain
  keys, each of which consists of a name and a value. A typical section name is COLORS. A
  typical key within this section consists of the name "COLOR16" and the value 255,255,0.
  This key attaches this particular name to this particular color. (The value represents a
  color specification using the red-green-blue color-naming scheme.)

  The
  current environment might be the registry or an initialization file. The registry
  consists of sections called keys and subkeys arranged in a hierarchy. Keys and subkeys
  contain value entries, each of which consists of a value name and value data.
  Initialization files, by contrast, consist of a single level of sections. Sections
  contain entries, each of which consists of a name, an equals sign (=), and a
  value.

  For more information on environments, see the topics on
  colors and fonts in OpenEdge Programming
  Interfaces.
 The current environment is either the default environment, the startup
  environment (an environment that a startup parameter specified),
  or an application environment that the LOAD statement loaded and
  that the USE statement made current.
• If you unload the current environment (using the UNLOAD statement)
  and then use the GET-KEY-VALUE statement, you access the startup
  environment.

See also

LOAD statement, PUT-KEY-VALUE statement, UNLOAD statement, USE statement




LIBRARY function

Parses a character string in the form path-name>,
where path-name is the pathname of an ABL r-code
library and member-name is the name of a file
within the library, and returns the pathname of the library. The
double angle brackets indicate that member-name is
a file in a library. If the string is not in this form, the LIBRARY
function returns the Unknown value (?).

Typically,
you use the LIBRARY function with the SEARCH function to retrieve
the name of a library. The SEARCH function returns character strings of
the form path-name> if it
finds a file in a library.

Syntax

string: A character expression whose value is the pathname of a file in a
    library. In Windows, the pahtname cannot contain characters outside of the non-Unicode
    code page. See Internationalize ABL Applications for more
    information about Unicode and code pages.

Example

This
procedure searches for a file that you specify. It displays a message indicating
whether the file is not found in your path, is found in a library
within your path, or is found in your path but not in a library.

r-rlib.p

Note

You can
improve the performance of an application by using the SEARCH and
LIBRARY functions for any files you want to execute that you specify
with a relative pathname. For example, if you want to execute a
procedure file several times that you specify with a relative pathname,
you can return the absolute pathname for the file using the SEARCH
and LIBRARY functions, then execute the RUN statement with that
absolute pathname, which avoids any need for the RUN statement to
search PROPATH each time.

See also

MEMBER function, SEARCH function




LOAD statement

(Windows only)

Creates application defaults, involving colors, fonts, environment variables, etc., or loads existing defaults, to a graphical or character application.

Specifically, the LOAD statement:

 Creates registry keys and initialization file entries
 Creates new initialization files
 Loads entries from the registry or from an existing initialization file

For more information on application defaults, see the topics on colors and
fonts in OpenEdge Programming Interfaces.

Note: Does not apply to SpeedScript programming.

Syntax

environment: A CHARACTER expression that evaluates to one of the following:

     The name of a registry key to create
     The name of an initialization file to create
     The name of an existing registry key
     The name of an existing initialization file

DIR directory: A CHARACTER expression that evaluates to the directory path of
    one of the following:

     An existing initialization file
     An initialization file to create

    If you omit this option, LOAD looks
    for an existing initialization file, or creates a new initialization file, in the
    working directory. The pathname can contain Unicode characters. See Internationalize ABL Applications for more information about
    Unicode.

APPLICATION: Has no effect; supported only for backward compatibility.

NEW: Creates a new registry key or a new initialization file. If the key or
    file already exists, LOAD overwrites its data.

BASE-KEY key-name| "INI": Bypasses the standard search rules.

    If you specify BASE-KEY
    key-name, LOAD looks for or
    creates the environment in the registry only under base key key-name.

    If you specify BASE-KEY "INI" (the quotes are
    required), LOAD looks for or creates only the initialization file
    environment.

NO-ERROR: The NO-ERROR option is used to
    prevent the statement from raising ERROR and
    displaying error messages.

Example

See
the USE statement reference
entry for an example.

Notes

 If you specify LOAD
  environment, LOAD searches for a
  registry key and for an existing initialization file, and tries to load one or the other.
  The search logic, which assumes that environment has
  the format path\rootname.extension (where path and extension are
  optional) and that version is the current OpenEdge
  version, is as follows:
• Search the registry under HKEY\CURRENT\USER for path\rootname.extension.

    If found, load it.
• Else search the registry under HKEY\CURRENT\USER for SOFTWARE\PSC\PROGRESS\version\path\rootname.extension.

    If found, load it.
• Else search the registry under HKEY\CURRENT\USER for SOFTWARE\path\rootname.extension.

    If
    found, load it.
• Else search the registry under HKEY\CURRENT\USER for rootname.

    If found, load it.
• Else search the registry under HKEY\CURRENT\USER for SOFTWARE\PSC\PROGRESS\version\rootname.

    If found, load it.
• Else search the registry under HKEY\CURRENT\USER for SOFTWARE\rootname.

    If found, load
    it.
• Else search the registry under HKEY\LOCAL\MACHINE for path\rootname.extension.

    If found,
    load it.
• Else search the registry under HKEY\LOCAL\MACHINE for SOFTWARE\PSC\PROGRESS\version\path\rootname.extension.

    If found, load it.
• Else search the registry under HKEY\LOCAL\MACHINE for SOFTWARE\path\rootname.extension.

    If
    found, load it.
• Else search the registry under HKEY\LOCAL\MACHINE for rootname.

    If found, load it.
• Else search the registry under HKEY\LOCAL\MACHINE for SOFTWARE\PSC\PROGRESS\version\rootname.

    If found, load it.
• Else search the registry under HKEY\LOCAL\MACHINE for SOFTWARE\rootname.

    If found, load it.
• Else search for the initialization file path\rootname.extension.

    If found, load it.
• Else, error.
 If you specify LOAD
  environment
  BASE-KEY key-name, where key-name is the name of a registry base key,
  LOAD loads the registry key key-name\environment.

  Registry base keys are as
  follows:
• HKEY\CLASSES\ROOT
• HKEY\CURRENT\CONFIG (Win95 and NT 4.0)
• HKEY\CURRENT\USER
• HKEY\DYN\DATA (Win95 and NT 4.0)
• HKEY\LOCAL\MACHINE
• HKEY\USERS
 If you specify LOAD
  environment
  BASE-KEY "INI", LOAD loads the initialization file
  environment.
 If you specify LOAD
  environment
  NEW, LOAD creates a new key in the registry under
  HKEY\CURRENT\_USER and names the new key environment.
 If you specify LOAD
  environment
  NEW BASE-KEY
  key-name, LOAD creates a new key in
  the registry under key-name and names the new key
  environment.
 If you specify LOAD
  environment
  NEW BASE-KEY "INI", LOAD creates a new initialization
  file and names it environment.ini.
 To change the application environment, load defaults using the
  LOAD statement, make them current using the USE
  statement, then access them using the GET-KEY-VALUE and
  PUT-KEY-VALUE statements.

See also

GET-KEY-VALUE statement,, NO-ERROR option, PUT-KEY-VALUE statement, UNLOAD statement, USE statement




MEMBER function

Parses a reference to a member of an ABL r-code library
and returns the simple member name.

Syntax

string: A character expression (a constant, field name, variable or
    expression that results in a character value) whose value is the
    pathname of a file in an r-code library.

The MEMBER function parses a character string in the
form path-name>, where path-name is
the pathname of a library and member-name is
the name of a file within the library, and returns member-name.
The double angle brackets indicate that member-name is
a file in a library. If the string is not in this form, the MEMBER
function returns the Unknown value (?).

Use the MEMBER function with the SEARCH function to determine whether a
file is in a library. If a data file is in a library, you must first extract the file from
the library in order to read it. (See Manage ABL Applications
for more information on extracting a file from a library.) The SEARCH function returns a
character string in the form path-name> if it finds a file in a library.

Example

This
procedure prompts for the name of a file. Using this value, the
procedure searches for the file. If it does not find the file, it
displays a message and ceases operation. If it does find the file,
it tests to see if the file is in a library. If so, the procedure
displays the filename and the name of the library. Otherwise, the
procedure displays the pathname of the file returned by SEARCH.

r-memb.p

See also

LIBRARY function, SEARCH function




OPSYS function

Identifies the operating system being used,
so that a single version of a procedure can work differently under
different operating systems. Returns the value of that operating
system. Valid values are "UNIX" and "WIN32".

Note: For
both 32-bit and 64-bit Windows operating systems, OPSYS returns
the value "WIN32".

Syntax

Example

This
procedure produces a listing of the files in your current directory.
The OPSYS function determines which operating system you are running,
and uses the appropriate operating system command to produce the
directory listing. The example shows the possible return values.

r-opsys.p

Note

ABL supports
an override option that enables applications that need to return
the value of MS-DOS for all Microsoft operating systems to do so.
For example, if you do not want the value WIN32 returned when the
Windows operating system is recognized, you can override this return
value by defining the Opsys key in the Startup section of the current
environment, which may be in the registry or in an initialization
file. If the Opsys key is located, the OPSYS function returns the
value associated with the Opsys key on all platforms.

See also

DOS statement, UNIX statement, PROCESS-ARCHITECTURE function, { } Preprocessor name reference




PROCESS-ARCHITECTURE function

Identifies the bit value of the AVM process
you are using at run time and returns this value as an INTEGER.
Valid values are 32 for a 32-bit AVM and 64 for 64-bit AVM. For
example, an application that uses a 32-bit Windows API through the
DLL external procedure interface may need to pass different parameters
to a function when running a 64-bit GUI client than when running
a 32-bit GUI client. Using PROCESS-ARCHITECTURE, you can decide
the parameters to pass.

Syntax

Example

This
procedure displays a message indicating whether the AVM is a 32-bit or
64-bit process, whether the process is running on a 32-bit or 64-bit
Windows machine:

r-prbits.p

Notes

This
function has a corresponding preprocessor. {&PROCESS-ARCHITECTURE}
expands to either "32" or "64".

See also

{ } Preprocessor name reference




PROGRAM-NAME function

Returns the name of the calling program.

Syntax

n: The numeric argument. If n is 1, the name
    of the current program is returned. If n is 2,
    the name of the calling program is returned. If there is no calling
    program then you have reached the top of the call stack and the
    AVM returns the Unknown value (?).

Example

This procedure returns the names of any procedure(s) that called it and displays the number
of levels that the procedure was nested:

r-prgnm.p

Notes

 If
  you execute a procedure directly from the Procedure Editor or the
  AppBuilder, then PROGRAM-NAME(1) returns the name of a temporary
  file rather than the name of the actual procedure file.
 The PROGRAM-NAME function is useful when developing on-line help.
  For example, you can use the following code in your help routine
  to produce a program trace:

  r-trace.p

 If the procedure you reference is an internal procedure, then PROGRAM-NAME
  returns a string with the following form:

 If the procedure you reference is a user interface trigger associated with
  a widget, then PROGRAM-NAME returns a string with the following
  form:

 If the procedure you reference is a user interface trigger that
  uses the ANYWHERE keyword, then PROGRAM-NAME returns a string with the
  following form:

 If the procedure you reference is a session database trigger,
  then PROGRAM-NAME returns a string with the following form:

  Where type is either ASSIGN,
  CREATE, DELETE, FIND, or WRITE.
• If the call stack contains a method reference, then PROGRAM-NAME
  returns a string with the following form:

  Where class-file-name is
  the name of the class definition (.cls) file in
  which method-name is implemented.




PROGRESS function

Returns one of the following character values
which identifies the ABL product that is running: Full, Query or
Run-time. Can also return COMPILE if you use the Developer's Toolkit,
or COMPILE-ENCRYPT if you use the run-time Compiler.

Note: Does not apply to SpeedScript programming.

Syntax

Examples

The
following procedure uses the PROGRESS phrase function to determine
which exit prompt is displayed on a menu:

r-progfn.p

This procedure displays a message that tells
you the type of ABL product you are using:

See also

DBVERSION function, PROVERSION function




PROMSGS function

Returns the current value of the ABL PROMSGS
variable.

Syntax

Example

This
example uses the PROMSGS function to determine whether the default
message file (promsgs) is in use. If not, it uses the PROMSGS function again
to display the name of the current message file.

r-promsg.p

See also

PROMSGS statement




PROMSGS statement

Sets the ABL PROMSGS variable for the current
ABL session. The PROMSGS variable holds the name of the current
ABL message file. ABL supplies different versions of this file to
support various languages.

Syntax

string-expression: A character-string expression that resolves to the name of an ABL
    message file. You can specify a full or relative pathname for the messages file. Any
    relative pathname is relative to your current working directory. In Windows, the
    pathname cannot contain characters outside of the non-Unicode code page. See Internationalize ABL Applications for more information about
    Unicode and code pages.

Example

This
example prompts the user for a language name and then tries to find a
message file for that language. If the message file is found, then
the PROMSGS statement is used to make that the current message file.
Subsequently, all ABL system messages are read from the new promsgs file.
The PROMSGS function is used in an informative message.

r-swmsgs.p

See also

PROMSGS function




PROPATH function

Returns the current value of the PROPATH environment
variable.

Syntax

Example

This
procedure first displays a comma-separated list of the directories
in the current PROPATH. It then displays each directory
in the current PROPATH, one per line.

r-ppath1.p

Notes

 ABL
  stores the PROPATH as a comma-separated list of
  directories. (ABL strips the operating-specific separation characters
  (a colon (:) on UNIX; a semicolon (;) in Windows) and replaces them
  with commas.
 The default format for PROPATH is x(70).
• For more information on the PROPATH
  environment variable, see Install OpenEdge.

See also

PROPATH statement




PROPATH statement

Sets the PROPATH environment variable
for the current ABL session.

When you start ABL, it automatically
adds the $DLC directory and some subdirectories to your PROPATH.
ABL always preserves these directories in your PROPATH,
even if you change or clear your PROPATH. Thus,
ABL can always find its executables and r-code.

Syntax

string-expression: A field, variable, string constant, or combination of these that
    evaluates to a character string. The character string should be a list of directory
    paths. The directory names in the path can be separated by commas or by the appropriate
    separation character for your operating system. The directory pathnames can use the UNIX
    format for pathnames (/dir1/dir2/dir3, for example)
    or the standard pathname format for your operating system. Use the slash-separated
    directory name format if you are concerned about portability across multiple operating
    systems. In Windows, the pathnames cannot contain characters outside of the non-Unicode
    code page. See Internationalize ABL Applications for more
    information about Unicode and code pages.

Note: The
+= Addition assignment operator can be used with the PROPATH statement.

Examples

The r-ppath.p procedure
displays a strip menu with four choices. The procedure defines three
arrays: menu holds the items for selection on the menu, proglist
holds the names of the programs associated with the menu selections,
and ppath holds the appropriate PROPATHs for each
program. The CHOOSE statement allows the user to choose an item
from the strip menu.

r-ppath.p

The AVM uses the menu selection number as an
index into the ppath and proglist arrays. The AVM sets the PROPATH and
runs the program.

This simple example changes and displays
the PROPATH:

r-prpath.p

The following example code uses the += assignment operator to add to the PROPATH.

Notes

 Changes
  to PROPATH last only for the current session. Any
  subprocesses inherit the PROPATH in effect when
  the ABL session started.
 When you start ABL, it automatically adds the top directory
  of the ABL hierarchy and some subdirectories to your PROPATH.
  If you use the PROPATH statement to make a change,
  ABL adds the directories you specify to your existing PROPATH.
 ABL replaces separation characters in expression (a
  colon (:) on UNIX; a semicolon (;) in Windows) with commas,
  so the resulting PROPATH string can be accessed
  with the ENTRY function. Therefore, file pathnames passed in expression must
  not include embedded commas.
 If you change your PROPATH, and your old PROPATH included
  r-code libraries that are not in your new PROPATH,
  those libraries are automatically closed. If you run a procedure
  from a closed library, the AVM displays an error message.
• For more information on the PROPATH
  environment variable, see Install OpenEdge.

See also

ENTRY function, PROPATH function




PROVERSION function

Returns the version of ABL, or release of OpenEdge, you
are running. You can also optionally retrieve additional release
information, such as the service pack version number and the hot
fix version number.

Syntax

mode: An optional integer expression that identifies how much version information
    is returned, as follows:

     If the value of mode is either 0 or not specified,
      PROVERSION returns limited version information—the major version number, the minor
      version number, and, if applicable, the version tag.
     If the value of mode is 1, PROVERSION
      returns full version information—the major version number, the minor
      version number, the service pack number, the hot fix version number,
      the build number, and, if applicable, the version tag.
     If the value of mode is other than 1 or 0,
      a run-time error message is returned.

Examples

Following is an example of the information PROVERSION returns when you use
1 as the mode value for an FCS OpenEdge release, which
has no version tag:

in which:

 11 is
  the major version number.
 2 is the minor version number.
 0 is the service pack number.
 0 is the hot fix version number.
 1234 is the build number.

If you specify 0 as the mode value (or specify no mode value at all) for
an OpenEdge BETA release, you see the major version number, the minor version number, and
the version tag. For example:

If you specify 1 as the mode value for an OpenEdge BETA release, for
example, the following details appear:

See also

DBVERSION function, PROGRESS function




SAVE CACHE statement

Saves the schema cache of a database to an operating system file. Subsequent sessions can then share the same cache by using the Schema Cache File (-cache) parameter.

Syntax

CURRENT: Specifies that only the portion of the schema cache that applies
    to referenced tables is saved to the file. By using this option
    you can tailor a small schema cache file for an application that
    does not use all the tables in the database.

COMPLETE: Specifies that the complete schema cache for the database is
    saved to the file. If you use this option, the client process builds
    a complete schema cache in memory including template records and
    all trigger information for every table in the database.

database-name: Specifies the literal logical name of a currently connected OpenEdge database.

pathname: Specifies the literal pathname of an operating system file to hold the
    schema cache. In Windows, the pathname cannot contain characters outside of the
    non-Unicode code page. See Internationalize ABL
    Applications for more information about Unicode and code pages.

VALUE (char-expr): Returns the corresponding literal database name or pathname
    specified by the character expression in char-expr.

NO-ERROR: The NO-ERROR option is used to
    prevent the statement from raising ERROR and
    displaying error messages.

Example

This
procedure saves the complete schema cache for each database that
you specify in the current working directory, and displays any error
messages associated with connecting or saving the cache:

r-schcsh.p

Notes

 The
  schema cache is saved to the file in a binary format that is portable
  across machines.
 For information on using an existing schema cache file, see Manage the OpenEdge Database. For information on the Schema Cache
  File (-cache) startup parameter, see Startup Command and Parameter Reference.
 Any schema changes to the database make the saved cache invalid.
  If the schema cache file is invalid when the AVM tries to access
  it, the AVM displays a warning message, ignores the file, and reads
  the required schema cache from the database.
 To set up your database environment to use the CURRENT
  option, you only have to connect to the database and read from the tables that compose the
  schema you want to save. This is sufficient for the SAVE CACHE statement
  to save all parts of each table in the schema, including template records and trigger
  information. If you want to save a different subschema of the database, you must
  disconnect and then reconnect to the database before reading the tables for that
  subschema.
• For a DataServer, the AVM saves the schema cache for the entire schema
  holder database. You cannot save the schema cache for a non-OpenEdge database separately.
  For more information on schema cache files for DataServers, see the OpenEdge DataServer
  Guides (Use the Microsoft SQL Data Server and Use the Oracle Data Server).

See also

CONNECT statement, ERROR-STATUS system handle, NO-ERROR option




SET-BYTE-ORDER statement

Sets an internal indicator designating the
byte-order of the data pointed to by the MEMPTR variable.

Note: Does not apply to SpeedScript programming.

Syntax

memptr: An expression that returns a MEMPTR.

integer-expression: An expression that returns an integer value that will be
    used to indicate the byte-ordering of the data in the memory to
    which the MEMPTR points. integer-expression must
    be one of the reserved keywords defined in the following table or
    its corresponding value. If integer-expression is
    not valid, ABL generates an error.

    Table 1. Byte
    order options

Notes

 The byte order for a MEMPTR is HOST-BYTE-ORDER by
  default, that is, if SET-BYTE-ORDER has not been called for a given
  MEMPTR, its byte order is HOST-BYTE-ORDER.
 SET-BYTE-ORDER by itself never affects data currently
  in the MEMPTR, that is, it does not actually re-order the data. It only affects how
  subsequent calls to the PUT- statements and GET-
  functions work with that MEMPTR variable.

See also

GET-BYTE-ORDER function




SHOW-STATS statement

Writes procedure call statistics to the proc.mon output
file if you specify the Statistics with Cross-Reference (-yx)
parameter. It also writes procedure access and usage statistics
to the client.mon output file if you specify
the Statistics (-y) parameter, Statistics with CTRL+C (-yc) parameter,
Segment Statistics (-yd) parameter, or Statistics
with Cross-Reference (-yx) parameter. If you specify
Segment Statistics (-yd), it also displays statistics
for each code segment.

Ordinarily, when you specify these startup parameters, the AVM writes the
statistics to the output files at the end of your ABL session. This might not be what you
want. For example, if you start ABL using the -y or -yc parameters, you might want to view the execution buffer
statistics as they occur during your ABL session. With SHOW-STATS, you can force the AVM to
write the statistics at a specific time, instead of at session end. For more information on
these startup parameters, see Startup Command and Parameter
Reference.

The
SHOW-STATS statement also writes the value of the STARTUP-PARAMETERS attribute to the client.mon output file.

Syntax

CLEAR: Resets all counters and timers that the AVM uses to monitor
    the procedure call, procedure access, and usage statistics.

Example

This
procedure runs the Data Dictionary and writes the procedure call, procedure
access, and usage statistics to the proc.mon and client.mon output
files:

r-stats.p

Notes

 If
  you use the SHOW-STATS statement without specifying the Statistics
  (y) parameter, the AVM opens the client.mon file
  as if you were dynamically specifying -y. However, the first SHOW-STATS
  statement that you use does not send any statistics to the client.mon file;
  it only opens the file. All subsequent SHOW-STATS statements, however,
  send procedure access and usage statistics to the file. But since
  you did not specify -y at startup, the AVM does not write any startup
  parameter statistics to the client.mon file.
 You must specify the Statistics with Cross-Reference (-yx) parameter, if
  you want the SHOW-STATS statement to write procedure call statistics to
  the proc.mon file.




SSL-SERVER-NAME function

Returns the digital certificate subject name for an OpenEdge database
connected via TLS. If a database connection does not exist or the connection is not using
TLS (including a shared-memory connection), this function returns the Unknown value (?).

Syntax

logical-database-name: A quoted character string or character expression that specifies
    the database by its logical name.

Example

The
following example returns the digital certificate subject name of
the database with the logical name mydb:

See also

Server object handle, Socket object handle




UNLOAD statement

(Windows only)

Unloads a set of environment specifications from the current environment, which might be the registry or an initialization file.

Note: Does not apply to SpeedScript programming.

Syntax

environment: A character expression that evaluates to the name of an environment
    that a prior LOAD statement specified.

NO-ERROR: The NO-ERROR option is used to
    prevent the statement from raising ERROR and
    displaying error messages.

Notes

 An application cannot UNLOAD a set of environment
  specifications until it terminates all windows that use those specifications.
 If you UNLOAD the current environment, the default
  environment becomes the current environment. To define a new current environment, use the
  USE statement.
• Use the UNLOAD statement to clean up memory in
  applications, such as the AppBuilder, that build and run other applications.

See also

LOAD statement, NO-ERROR option, USE statement




USE statement

(Windows only)

Specifies environment defaults that apply to subsequent windows that the
application creates. The defaults might reside in the registry or in an initialization file.
The defaults can involve colors, fonts, environment variables, etc. You must specify a
default in a LOAD statement before you specify it in a USE
statement.

Note: Does not apply to SpeedScript programming.

Syntax

environment: A CHARACTER expression that evaluates to the name of a current
    environment. If environment is non-null, it must
    have appeared in a prior LOAD statement. If environment is the null string (""), the default environment becomes the
    current environment.

NO-ERROR: The NO-ERROR option is used to
    prevent the statement from raising ERROR and
    displaying error messages.

Example

This procedure loads two files, env1.ini and env2.ini, each of which
contains a font definition for font0. The program displays a character string in the ABL
default window using the definition for font0 from env1.ini. It then creates a new window
and displays the same character string using the definition for font0 from env2.ini. Note
that the procedure creates the window after the USE statement.

r-use.p

This procedure depends on the existence of files
named env1.ini and env2.ini, each of which contains a font definition
for font0. If you run this procedure in your environment, you must
create these files.

Notes

 The USE statement does not change the DefaultFont or
  the DefaultFixedFont settings. It uses only the information in the [fonts] and [colors]
  sections of the new current environment's initialization file.
 Use this statement with applications (such as the AppBuilder)
  that build and run other applications using a unique set of environment
  specifications.
 An application must use this statement after the LOAD
  statement and before a new window is created to make the loaded set of environment
  specifications apply to the new window.
 Subsequent PUT-KEY-VALUE and
  GET-KEY-VALUE statements apply to the environment made available by the
  USE statement.

See also

GET-KEY-VALUE statement, LOAD statement, NO-ERROR option, PUT-KEY-VALUE statement




Working directory

A working directory is the default operating
system directory where an ABL session reads or writes most data
files (such as text and XML files) that are specified with a relative
pathname. An ABL session can have one active working directory at
a time that is the current working directory. In OpenEdge,
the current working directory can be one of the following:

 When
  you run an ABL session that is started directly from a shortcut
  in the OpenEdge program group in Windows, such as the OpenEdge Desktop,
  the current working directory is the working directory that you
  specified during OpenEdge installation (C:\OpenEdge\WRK by
  default).
 When you run an ABL session (OpenEdge AVM) from within Progress
  Developer Studio for OpenEdge, the current working directory is
  the working directory you specified for the project you are currently
  working in.
 When you start an ABL client directly from the command line,
  for example, by running the OpenEdge pro or mpro command
  in the OpenEdge Proenv command window, the current working directory
  is the active working directory at the point you run the command.

Notes

 The
  current working directory is distinct and different from PROPATH. PROPATH is
  an environment variable that specifies one or more directories that
  an ABL session searches in order to locate and execute ABL code
  in any procedure file, include file, class definition file, or r-code
  file that you specify with a relative pathname.
• The ABL session does not search the current working directory
  for data files that you access in order to load the contents of
  an editor widget. Instead, if you pass a relative pathname to the INSERT-FILE() method or
  the READ-FILE() method,
  the ABL session searches PROPATH to locate and
  read the file into the associated editor widget. This is an exception
  to how ABL generally handles access to data files specified with
  a relative pathname.

See also

PROPATH function, PROPATH statement




