ASSIGN statement

Moves data previously placed in the screen buffer by a data input statement
or moves data specified within the ASSIGN statement by an
expression to the corresponding fields and variables in the record buffer.

Data movement

Syntax

[ FRAME frame | BROWSE browse ] field: The name of the field or variable (field) to be set from the corresponding value found in the screen buffer or
    expression. The field must be qualified by a frame
    name (frame) or browse name (browse) if field is specified as an
    input widget in more than one frame. If field is set
    from expression, field can include all of the elements that are defined for the left side of
    an Assignment (=) statement.

expression: An expression with a data type that is consistent with the data type
    of field. In this case, the AVM determines the
    field value from the expression rather than from
    the screen buffer. For more information on expression, see the Expression reference entry.

WHEN expression: Moves data to the record buffer only when expression has a value of TRUE. Here, expression is a field name, variable name, or expression whose value is
    logical. The AVM evaluates WHEN expressions at the beginning of the assignment, before
    any assignments take place.

NO-ERROR: The NO-ERROR option is used to prevent the statement from raising ERROR and displaying error messages.

record: The record buffer name with the fields set, from the corresponding
    values in the screen buffer. Naming a record is a shorthand way to list each field in
    that record individually.

    To use ASSIGN with a record in a table defined for multiple databases, you might
    have to qualify the record's table name with the database name. See the record definition in the Record phrase reference entry for more
    information.

EXCEPT field: All fields in the record buffer are affected except for those listed.
    Separate field names with a space.

Note: Compound assignment operators (+=, -=, =, /=) can be used with the ASSIGN statement. For more information, see += Addition assignment operator, -= Subtraction assignment operator, \= Multiplication assignment operator, and /= Division assignment operator.

Examples

The following procedure prompts you for a customer number and retrieves
the customer record if one exists, or creates a new one if it does not exist. If it creates
a new record, the value for the CustNum field is assigned
from the value you entered in response to the PROMPT-FOR
statement.

r-asgn.p

The next procedure changes the order number and line number of an
order-line record. (It copies an order-line from one order to another.) It sets the new
values into variables and modifies the record with a single ASSIGN statement that contains two assignment phrases in the form field = expression. Thus, both fields are changed within a
single statement. Because the AVM re-indexes records at the end of any statement that
changes an index field value, and because OrderLine.OrderNum and OrderLine.LineNum are
used jointly in one index, this technique does not generate an index until both values
change.

r-asgn2.p

The following example code uses the
+= assignment operator, with the ASSIGN statement, to update the CreditLimit field and the myCtr
variable.

Notes

 If field is an integer and expression is a decimal, the AVM rounds the value of the
  expression before assigning it. If field is a decimal
  and expression is a decimal, the AVM rounds the value
  of the expression to the number of decimal places defined for the field in the Data
  Dictionary, or defined or implied for a variable or temp-table field.
 If field is an ABL array type and
  expression is not an array, and you do not identify
  a particular array element, the AVM stores expression
  in each element of the array. If you identify a particular element, the AVM stores
  expression in the specified array element.
 If both field and expression are ABL array types, the AVM copies the data for
  all expression array elements into the corresponding
  elements of the field array. This is known as a deep copy. For more information, see Work with one-dimensional arrays in Basic ABL.
 ABL allows you to assign ABL arrays and.NET array objects to each
  other. How an array assignment works between ABL and.NET arrays depends upon the array
  type of field (the target of the assignment) and the
  array type of expression (the source for the
  assignment). For more information, see the Data types reference entry.
 If an assignment of one array to another encounters an error after
  some, but not all of the source array's elements are retrieved, none of the target's
  elements are updated.
 If expression is an ABL
  handle-based object (for example, a temp-table, ProDataSet, widget, or socket), field must be a temp-table field, variable, or other ABL data
  element defined as a compatible handle. In this case, the AVM assigns only the handle of
  the ABL handle-based object to field, not the entire
  object and its contents.
 If any field is a field in a
  database record, the ASSIGN statement upgrades the
  record lock condition to EXCLUSIVE-LOCK before updating the record.
 If any field is part of a record
  retrieved with a field list, the ASSIGN statement
  rereads the complete record before updating it.
 If field is a handle, the expression on the right-hand-side of the corresponding
  assignment must also evaluate to a handle value that is specified using an appropriate
  reference to a handle-based object handle. For more information on object handle
  references, see the Handle Attributes and Methods Reference.
 During data entry, a validation expression defined for the field in the
  database or in a Format phrase executes only if the widget associated with the field
  receives input focus. Use the VALIDATE() method to
  execute a validation expression defined for a field regardless of whether it receives
  input focus or not.
 Use an ASSIGN statement after a
  PROMPT-FOR statement or to write changes from an
  enabled field to the database. ASSIGN moves the value
  from the screen buffer into the field or variable.
 Use the PROMPT-FOR statement to
  receive one or more index fields from the user, and you use the FIND statement to find a record matching those index values. If no record is
  found, use the CREATE statement to create a new record
  and use the ASSIGN statement to assign the values the
  user supplied to the new record.
 You cannot use the SET statement in
  place of the PROMPT-FOR statement. The SET statement prompts the user for input and then assigns that
  input to the record in the buffer. However, if there is not a record available, SET cannot assign the values.
 ASSIGN does not move data into a
  field or variable if there is no data in the corresponding screen field. There is data in
  a screen field if a DISPLAY of the field was done or if
  data was entered into the field. If you PROMPT-FOR a
  field or variable that has not been DISPLAYed in the frame and enter blanks, the AVM does
  not change the field or variable because it considers the screen field changed only if the
  data differs from what was in the field.
 If an ASSIGN statement references a
  field or variable that is used in more than one frame, it uses the value in the frame most
  recently introduced in the procedure.
 If you type blanks into a field that has never displayed data, the
  ENTERED function returns FALSE and the SET or ASSIGN statement does
  not update the underlying field or variable. Also, if the AVM marks a field as entered,
  and the PROMPT-FOR statement prompts for the field again
  and you do not enter any data, the AVM no longer considers the field entered.
 If you use a single, qualified identifier with the ASSIGN statement, the Compiler interprets the reference as
  dbname.filename. If the Compiler cannot resolve the
  reference as dbname.filename, it tries to resolve it
  as filename.fieldname.
 Many assignments within a single ASSIGN statement are more efficient than multiple ASSIGN statements. It saves r-code size and improves performance.
 The ASSIGN statement, when used in
  database fields, causes all related database ASSIGN triggers to execute in the order in
  which the fields were assigned. The ASSIGN triggers execute after all the assignments have
  taken place. If an ASSIGN trigger fails (or executes a RETURN statement with the ERROR option), all
  of the database changes are undone. See Use ABL Database Triggers
  and Indexes for more information on database triggers.

  Note: If the value to be
  assigned is the same as the value already in the database field, then any associated
  database ASSIGN triggers are not executed.
 You can assign large object data from one BLOB or MEMPTR to another,
  and from one CLOB, LONGCHAR, or CHARACTER to another. You cannot assign large object data
  between BLOBs and CLOBs or MEMPTRs and LONGCHARs. You can accomplish, indirectly, by using
  the COPY-LOB statement. For more information, see the
  COPY-LOB statement reference entry.

  The following table lists the default character conversions that the
  AVM performs when assigning CLOB, LONGCHAR, and CHARACTER data. References to CLOBCP and
  CLOBDB represent CLOB data in either the CLOB's defined code page or the database's
  defined code page, respectively. References to the "fixed code page" represent the code
  page of a target LONGCHAR variable set using the FIX-CODEPAGE statement.

  Table 1. Default character conversions with the ASSIGN statement

 When you assign the Unknown value (?)
  to a BLOB or CLOB field, the AVM deletes any associated object data.
 You can assign DATE, DATETIME, and DATETIME-TZ
  data. When the data type expression on the left side of the assignment statement contains
  more information than the data type expression on the right side provides (for example,
  datetime-tz = date where a DATETIME-TZ value contains more information than a DATE value), the time value defaults to midnight and the time zone is
  calculated using SESSION:TIMEZONE when that attribute is
  in use. If the attribute is not in use, the value defaults to the session's timezone. When
  the data type expression on the left side of the assignment statement contains less
  information than the data type expression on the right side provides (for example,
  date = datetime-tz where a DATE value contains less information than a DATETIME-TZ value), the AVM converts the DATETIME-TZ value to the local date and time of the session, then drops the
  time and time zone.

  Note: For releases 11.6.0 and earlier, assignments such as datetime-tz = date used the system's timezone, regardless
  of whether or not SESSION:TIMEZONE was set. To revert
  to this earlier behavior, use the Use SESSION:TIMEZONE
  (-useSessionTZ) startup parameter. See Startup Command and Parameter Reference for more
  information.
 If expression is a solitary
  invocation of the NEW function, this function behaves
  according to the rules specified for the NEW function (classes) when not operating in the context of a NEW statement.
 If expression evaluates to an
  object reference value, field must also be a data
  element defined as a class or interface type that is type-compatible with expression according to the rules for assigning references to
  class instances defined for the NEW statement. For more
  information, see the NEW statement reference entry.
  Thus, you can assign one object reference variable to another object reference variable
  when the destination object reference (on the left side of the assignment) is defined for
  the same class, a super class, or an interface of the object reference being assigned (on
  the right side of the assignment). The destination object reference retains its defined
  class or interface type for compilation. However, following its assignment, at run time,
  the destination represents the subclass of field (or
  the class that implements the interface specified by field) that is defined by expression.

  If field has a class type that is a
  subclass lower in the class hierarchy than the class type represented by expression, you can cast expression to the type of field using
  the CAST function, but only if expression is a super class that actually contains an
  instance of the field class type. If field has a class type that implements an interface type
  represented by expression, you can similarly cast
  expression using the CAST function, but only if expression
  actually contains an instance of the field class
  type. For more information about the CAST function,
  see the CAST function reference entry.

  After the assignment,
  field contains a copy of the object reference
  value returned by expression, which points to the
  same object instance, not a copy of the object referenced by expression.
• Although you can assign an object reference to a temp-table field
  defined as a Progress.Lang.Object class type, you cannot assign
  an object reference to a field in a database table. For more information, see Develop Object-oriented ABL Applications.

See also

Assignment (=) statement, CAST function, Class-based object reference, COPY-DATASET() method, COPY-LOB statement,
COPY-TEMP-TABLE() method, Data types, Expression, FIX-CODEPAGE statement, INPUT function, NO-ERROR option,
PROMPT-FOR statement, SET statement, UPDATE statement




BASE64-DECODE function

Converts a Base64 character string into a binary
value. The result is a MEMPTR containing the binary data.

Syntax

expression: A CHARACTER or LONGCHAR expression containing the string you
    want to convert.

Note: The BASE64-ENCODE and BASE64-DECODE functions:

 Use the Base64 Alphabet table as found in RFC 4648.
 Do not enforce line lengths with separators.
 Require use of the ‘=’ padding character.
 Do not implement the Filename Safe Alphabet needed for Base64URL
  encoding.

Note: The BASE64-ENCODE,
BASE64-DECODE, HEX-ENCODE, and
HEX-DECODE functions do not do any byte ordering. However, the binary
output of these functions may be a binary data type such as a MEMPTR or RAW. If the target
of these operation’s output is another system where the order of bytes (endianness) differs,
you must first normalize the data to what the receiving side is expecting. Otherwise, the
results may not be as expected. For example, for a MEMPTR value that you are building
yourself, you can use the SET-BYTE-ORDER statement to set the byte order for the
MEMPTR variable before you read or write the value.

Example

Following is an example using the BASE64-DECODE
function:

Running this code displays the numeric byte values contained in the MEMPTR
returned by BASE64-DECODE, corresponding to the decoded binary data:

See also

BASE64-ENCODE function, SET-BYTE-ORDER statement




BASE64-ENCODE function

Converts binary data into a Base64 character
string, and returns a LONGCHAR containing the character data. The
resulting LONGCHAR is in the code page specified by -cpinternal.

Syntax

expression: A MEMPTR or RAW expression containing the binary data you want
    to convert.

Note: The BASE64-ENCODE and BASE64-DECODE functions:

 Use the Base64 Alphabet table as found in RFC 4648.
 Do not enforce line lengths with separators.
 Require use of the ‘=’ padding character.
 Do not implement the Filename Safe Alphabet needed for Base64URL
  encoding.

Note: The BASE64-ENCODE,
BASE64-DECODE, HEX-ENCODE, and
HEX-DECODE functions do not do any byte ordering. However, the binary
output of these functions may be a binary data type such as a MEMPTR or RAW. If the target
of these operation’s output is another system where the order of bytes (endianness) differs,
you must first normalize the data to what the receiving side is expecting. Otherwise, the
results may not be as expected. For example, for a MEMPTR value that you are building
yourself, you can use the SET-BYTE-ORDER statement to set the byte order for the
MEMPTR variable before you read or write the value.

Example

Following is an example using the BASE64-ENCODE
function:

Running this code displays the numeric byte values stored in the MEMPTR,
followed by a message showing the Base64‑encoded character string:

The following example shows encoded strings, with and without padding
characters at the end of them:

Running this code produces the following output:

See also

BASE64-DECODE function, SET-BYTE-ORDER statement




CAN-DO function

Checks a user ID against a list of one or more
user ID matching patterns that can be used to indicate what users
have access to a given application function. The function returns
TRUE if the specified user ID has access according to the list.
Thus, you can implement run-time authorization checking for any
procedure or class in your application.

Syntax

id-pattern-list: A constant, field name, variable name, or expression that evaluates to a list of one
    or more user ID patterns. Each user ID pattern must be in the form of a table and field
    permission string that you might specify when editing data security with database
    administration tools. If the expression contains multiple user ID patterns, you must
    separate the patterns with commas. There can be no embedded spaces within or between the
    patterns in the list.

    The following table lists some basic user ID patterns that you
    can include in id-pattern-list, where user-ID
    can be a fully qualified or non-qualified user ID, depending on your application and
    authentication design, and string is a sequence of characters from
    any user ID. For more information on fully qualified and non-qualified user ID's, see
    the reference entries for the QUALIFIED-USER-ID attribute,
    USER-ID attribute, and USERID function.

    The patterns shown also support the use of a period (.) as a wildcard for a
    single character matches. For example, CAN-DO("a.c","abc") evaluates
    to TRUE.

    Table 1. Basic patterns to use in user ID pattern lists

    You can use any combination of patterns to define
    id-pattern-list. These patterns are fully consistent with the
    permissions that you can define for OpenEdge database tables and fields using database
    administration tools.

    The following table shows some examples of fully qualified
    user ID matches.

    Table 2. Fully qualified user ID matches

    Note: For a more complete description of the possible patterns and
    their meanings, see Introduction to Identity Management and the
    Database Administration online help.

userid: A character expression that evaluates to a user ID value that can be
    returned from the QUALIFIED-USER-ID attribute, USER-ID attribute, or USERID function. The userid is checked against id-pattern-list. If you do not enter userid, the compiler inserts the USERID function by
    default, which is evaluated each time you run the procedure or class. If the compiler
    inserts the USERID function, the function does not reference a
    database name and therefore only works for an ABL session with one database
    connection. If you explicitly use the USERID function and have more
    than one database connected, be sure to include the database name with the function
    call, for example, USERID("Sports2020").

Examples

The r-cando.p procedure
is based on an activity permission table called permission.
This permission table is not included in any of the installed sample
databases. However, the records in this table contain two fields
and might look something like the following:

In r-cando.p the
FIND statement reads the record for the activity "custedit" in the permission table. The
CAN-DO function compares the value of USERID (the user
ID of the single session database connection) with the list of users in the Can-Run field of the custedit
record. If the user ID is "manager" or "salesrep", the procedure continues executing. Otherwise, the
procedure displays a message and control returns to the calling procedure.

r-cando.p

In this next example, the CAN-DO function compares the
value of USERID against the list of user ID patterns passed as a constant
string to the function. The values in the constant string include "manager" and any user IDs beginning with "acctg" except "acctg8". If there is no match
between the two values, the procedure displays a message and then exits.

r-cando2.p

Notes

 If id-pattern-list contains
  contradictory values, the first occurrence of a value in the list
  applies. For example, CAN-DO("abc,!abc") evaluates
  to TRUE, because the user ID, "abc", appears before "!abc" in id-pattern-list.
 If id-pattern-list is exhausted
  without a match, CAN-DO returns a value of FALSE. Therefore, "!abc" restricts "abc" and
  everyone else, including the blank user ID (""). To
  restrict "abc" only and allow everyone else, use "!abc,".
 A userid comparison against id-pattern-list is
  not case sensitive.
 If a user is logged into a UNIX system as root, the AVM allows
  access to the procedure even if access is denied by the id-pattern-list. You
  must specifically deny root access by adding "!root" to
  the id-pattern-list.
 In addition to the examples shown above, you can use the
  CAN-DO function to compare a userid
  other than that of the current user against the list of values in id-pattern-list. For example, to assign a department userid to users "smith" and
  "jones" when they start the ABL session, you can
  prompt these users for a department userid and
  password and check them against a table of
  department ID's.
 You can pass user IDs to the CAN-DO function, other
  than the default, that have been set using command-line database connections, the CONNECT statement, the
  SECURITY-POLICY:SET-CLIENT() method,
  the SET-DB-CLIENT function, or the SETUSERID function.
 You can use the CAN-DO function to match a user ID
  against run-time table and field permissions stored in an OpenEdge RDBMS by accessing the
  user ID patterns stored in the Can- fields of the
  File metaschema table.
 ABL raises an error if you omit userid and
  one of the following conditions exists:
• There is no database
    connected.
• More than one database is currently connected.
 By default, CAN-DO treats "@" as a delimiter for the domain name in a fully qualified user ID. However,
  you can change this functionality so that CAN-DO treats "@" as a regular character by using the CAN-DO-DOMAIN-SUPPORT attribute of the SECURITY-POLICY
  handle or the -nocandodomain startup parameter. For more
  information on the -nocandodomain startup parameter, see
  the Startup Command and Parameter Reference.
• Using the # character as an argument to the CAN-DO
  function may lead to incorrect results. # should only be used to
  distinguish GRANTable versus non-GRANTable permissions
  in SQL89.

See also

CAN-DO-DOMAIN-SUPPORT attribute, CONNECT statement,
QUALIFIED-USER-ID attribute, SET-CLIENT() method, SET-DB-CLIENT function, SETUSERID function,
USERID function




CAPS function

Converts any lowercase characters in a CHARACTER or LONGCHAR expression to
uppercase characters, and returns the result. The data type of the returned value matches
the data type of the expression passed to the function.

Syntax

expression: A constant, field name, variable name, or expression that results
    in a CHARACTER or LONGCHAR value.

Example

In
the following code example, the CAPS function converts the characters in
the state field to uppercase:

r-caps.p

Notes

 The
  CAPS function returns uppercase characters relative to the settings
  of the Internal Code Page (-cpinternal) and Case
  Table (-cpcase) startup parameters. For more information
  on these parameters, see Startup Command
  and Parameter Reference.
 The CAPS function is double-byte enabled. The specified expression can
  yield a string containing double-byte characters; however, the CAPS function
  changes only single-byte characters in the string.

See also

LC function




CHR function

Converts an integer value to its corresponding
character value.

Syntax

expression: An expression that yields an integer value that you want to
    convert to a character value.

    If the value of expression is
    in the range of 1 to 255, CHR returns a single character. This character
    might not be printable or might not display on certain terminals.
    For a value greater than 255, the CHR function checks whether the
    value represents a valid character within the source code page.
    For a double-byte or Unicode source code page, it checks for a corresponding
    lead-byte value. If the integer value corresponds to a valid lead-byte
    and the value represents a valid character in the source code page,
    CHR returns the character. Otherwise, the character returns a null
    string.

target-codepage: A character-string expression that evaluates to the name of
    a code page. The name that you specify must be a valid code page
    name available in the DLC/convmap.cp file (a
    binary file that contains all of the tables that ABL uses for character
    management). If you supply a non-valid name, the CHR function returns
    a null string. Before returning a character value, the CHR function
    converts expression from source-codepage to target-codepage.
    The returned character value is relative to target-codepage.
    If you do not specify target-codepage, no code
    page conversions occur.

source-codepage: A character-string expression that evaluates to the name of
    a code page. The name that you specify must be a valid code page
    name available in the DLC/convmap.cp file.
    If you supply a non-valid name, the CHR function returns a null
    string. The source-codepage specifies the name
    of the code page to which expression is relative.
    The default value of source-codepage is the value
    of SESSION:CHARSET.

Example

The r-chr.p procedure
initializes the 26 elements of the letter array to the letters A
through Z.

r-chr.p

Notes

 The
  CHR function returns the corresponding character in the specified
  code page. By default, the value of SESSION:CHARSET is iso8859-1.
  You can set a different internal code page by specifying the Internal
  Code Page (-cpinternal) parameter. For more information, see Startup Command and Parameter Reference.
 The CHR function is double-byte enabled. For a value greater
  than 255 and less than 65535, it checks for a lead-byte value. If
  the lead-byte value is valid, the AVM creates and returns a double-byte
  character.

See also

ASC function, CODEPAGE-CONVERT function, SESSION system handle, STRING function




CODEPAGE-CONVERT function

Converts a string value from one code page
to another.

Syntax

source-string: A CHARACTER or LONGCHAR expression to be converted.

target-codepage: A character-string expression that evaluates to the name of
    a code page. The returned character value is relative to target-codepage.
    The name that you specify must be a valid code page name available
    in the DLC/convmap.cp file (a binary file that
    contains all of the tables that ABL uses for character management).
    If you supply a non-valid name, the CODEPAGE-CONVERT function returns
    the Unknown value (?). Before returning a character value,
    the CODEPAGE-CONVERT function converts source-string from source-codepage to target-codepage.
    If you do not specify target-codepage, no code
    page conversions occur.

source-codepage: A character-string expression that evaluates to the name of
    a code page. The source-codepage specifies the
    name of the code page to which source-string is
    relative. The name that you specify must be a valid code page name
    available in the DLC/convmap.cp file. If you
    supply a non-valid name, the CODEPAGE-CONVERT function returns the Unknown value (?).
    The default value of source-codepage is the value
    of CHARSET attribute of the SESSION handle.

    If source-string is
    a LONGCHAR variable, the source-codepage argument
    is not valid. In this case, the code page of the LONGCHAR variable
    is used as the source code page.

Example

This
example assumes that the native code page of r-codpag.p is
ibm850. It is written so that its embedded text strings are always
converted to the internal code page of the ABL session (SESSION:CHARSET).

r-codpag.p

Notes

 The
  CODEPAGE-CONVERT function returns the corresponding character string
  in the specified code page. By default, the value of SESSION:CHARSET
  is iso8859-1. You can set a different internal code page by specifying
  the Internal Code Page (-cpinternal) parameter. For more information,
  see Internationalize ABL Applications and Startup Command and Parameter Reference.
 This function is especially useful if you plan to run a procedure
  in an ABL session in which the SESSION:CHARSET code page is different
  from the native code page of the procedure.
• When you write procedures with ABL, you must use 7-bit (that
  is, ASCII) characters for field names and variable names. But you
  can use 8-bit and multi-byte characters, including Unicode, for
  data values such as character strings and constants. Thus, a procedure
  written and compiled on a system using one code page can be run
  on a system using another code page as long as you convert all embedded
  character strings to the internal code page. Using CODEPAGE-CONVERT
  as shown in the example allows your procedures to be virtually code
  page independent.

See also

ASC function, CHR function, STRING function




COMPARE function

The COMPARE function compares two strings and lets
you:

 Perform a raw compare, if desired
 Use a particular collation
 Turn case sensitivity on and off

COMPARE returns
a LOGICAL value representing the result of the logical expression,
where the comparison rules are defined by the combination of the operator,
the comparison strength, and the collation.

Syntax

string1: A CHARACTER or LONGCHAR expression that evaluates to the first
    string to be compared.

relational-operator: A CHARACTER expression that evaluates to one of the relational operators,
    which are: LT (or =), GT
    (or >), NE (or <>), "BEGINS", and "MATCHES".

string2: A CHARACTER or LONGCHAR expression that evaluates to the second
    string to be compared.

strength: A CHARACTER expression that evaluates to the ABL comparison strength or the
    International Components for Unicode (ICU) comparison strength to apply.

    The ABL
    comparison strengths include:

     RAW — The AVM compares the two strings using the numeric values in the
      current code page.
     CASE-SENSITIVE — The AVM performs a case-sensitive comparison of the two
      strings using the numeric values in either the collation table specified in
      collation, or the collation table of the client. If you specify
      this strength with an ICU collation, the AVM applies the ICU TERTIARY strength.
     CASE-INSENSITIVE — The AVM performs a case-insensitive comparison of the
      two strings using the numeric values in either the collation table specified in
      collation, or the collation table of the client. If you specify
      this strength with an ICU collation, the AVM applies the ICU SECONDARY
      strength.
     CAPS — The AVM converts any lowercase letters in the two strings to
      uppercase letters, based on the settings of the Internal Code Page
      (-cpinternal) and Case Table (-cpcase) startup
      parameters, and then performs a raw comparison of the resulting strings. When
      neither string contains a wildcard character, this option behaves the same as the
      MATCHES operator.

    The ICU comparison strengths include:

     PRIMARY — The AVM compares the base characters in the two strings.
     SECONDARY — The AVM compares the base characters and any diacritical marks
      in the two strings.
     TERTIARY — The AVM performs a case-sensitive comparison of the base
      characters and diacritical marks in the two strings.
     QUATERNARY — The AVM performs a case-sensitive comparison of the base
      characters and any diacritical marks in the two strings, and distinguishes words
      with and without punctuation. ICU uses this strength to distinguish between Hiragana
      and Katakana when applied with the ICU-JA (Japanese) collation. Otherwise, it is the
      same as TERTIARY.

    Note: Use ICU comparison strengths only with ICU
    collations.

collation: A CHARACTER expression that evaluates to the name of an ABL collation
    table or ICU collation. By default, the AVM uses the collation rules
    you specify to compare characters and sort records. The collation rules
    specified with the Collation Table (-cpcoll) startup
    parameter take precedence over a collation specified for any database
    the AVM accesses during the session, except when the AVM uses or modifies
    pre-existing indexes. If you do not specify a collation with the -cpcoll startup
    parameter, the AVM uses the language collation rules defined for
    the first database on the command line. If you do not specify a
    database on the command line, the AVM uses the collation rules with
    the default name "basic" (which might or might
    not exist in the convmap.cp file).

    If strength is
    not RAW or CAPS, the collation must be either an ABL collation table
    in the convmap.cp file or an ICU collation,
    and must be a valid collation table for the code page corresponding
    to the -cpinternal startup parameter.

Notes

 If
  either or both strings evaluate to the Unknown value (?),
  COMPARE returns the value indicated in the following table.

  Table 1. Relational operators and the Unknown value (?)

 COMPARE returns the Unknown value (?) if one of the
  following occurs:
• relational-operator does
    not evaluate to a valid value.
• strength does not evaluate to a valid value.
• collation does not evaluate to a collation table
    residing in the convmap.cp file.
• collation evaluates to a collation table that
    is not defined for the code page corresponding to the -cpinternal startup
    parameter.
 LONGCHAR variable values are converted to -cpinternal for
  comparison and must convert without error, or the AVM returns an
  error.
 With BEGINS, the language-sensitive rules are used only when strength is
  not RAW or CAPS.
 With MATCHES, CASE-SENSITIVE is treated as RAW, CASE-INSENSITIVE
  is treated as CAPS, and the collation is never used.




COPY-LOB statement

Copies large object data between BLOBs, CLOBs, MEMPTRs, and LONGCHARs. It also copies large object data to and from the file system, and converts large object data to or from a specified code page.

Note: You cannot copy large object data between BLOBs and CLOBs directly. However, you can copy a BLOB or CLOB to a MEMPTR or LONGCHAR (which converts the data) and then copy the MEMPTR or LONGCHAR to the CLOB or BLOB, respectively.

Syntax

[ OBJECT ]source-lob: The source object to be copied, which can be a MEMPTR or LONGCHAR
    variable, a BLOB or CLOB database or temp-table field, or a dynamic
    expression that resolves to a BLOB or CLOB database or temp-table
    field. The source object data at this location is copied to the specified
    target object or file.

FILE source-filename: A character expression that specifies the name of a file containing
    the source object data to be copied. The object data in this source file is copied to
    the specified target object or file. You can specify an absolute or relative pathname.
    Any relative pathname is relative to the current working directory.

    The AVM raises the ERROR condition if source-filename resolves to the Unknown value (?) or the source file cannot be read. The filename can contain Unicode
    characters. See Internationalize ABL Applications for
    more information about Unicode.

    The AVM raises an error if
    both source-filename and target-filename are specified and they resolve to the same file.

STARTING AT n: An integer expression indicating a one-based offset position, in the
    source object or file, from which to start copying. The copy begins at offset 1, by
    default. The AVM raises the ERROR condition if the specified offset position is less
    than 1, greater than the size of the object or file, or the Unknown value (?).

    Note: Offsets are measured in
    bytes for binary data (BLOB or MEMPTR), and characters for character data (CLOB or
    LONGCHAR).

FOR length: An integer expression indicating the number of bytes or characters to
    copy from the source object or file starting at the specified offset position. The AVM
    copies from the specified offset position to the end of the object or file, by default.
    The AVM raises the ERROR condition if the specified length is less than 0, greater than
    the size of the object or file, or the Unknown value (?).

    Note: Offsets are measured in bytes for
    binary data (BLOB or MEMPTR), and characters for character data (CLOB or
    LONGCHAR).

[ OBJECT ]target-lob: The target object to receive the copy, which can be a MEMPTR
    or LONGCHAR variable, a BLOB or CLOB database or temp-table field,
    or a dynamic expression that resolves to a BLOB or CLOB database
    or temp-table field. The object data in the specified source object
    or file is copied to the target object.

    If the specified target
    object does not yet exist, the AVM either creates a BLOB or a CLOB,
    or allocates memory for a MEMPTR or a LONGCHAR. If the specified
    target object already exists, the AVM deletes the object before
    the copy operation begins, by default. You can specify the OVERLAY
    AT n option to overlay some portion
    of an existing target object.

    Note: Although the
    AVM allocates memory for a target MEMPTR, you are responsible for
    freeing that memory.

OVERLAY AT n[ TRIM ]: An overlay position in the target object. The AVM copies the source
    object or file to an existing BLOB, CLOB, MEMPTR, or LONGCHAR target starting at the
    given position. If the operation results in writing past the end of a target BLOB, CLOB,
    or LONGCHAR, the AVM extends the target object as necessary. If the operation results in
    writing past the end of a target MEMPTR, the AVM raises the ERROR condition.

    If the target object does not yet exist, the AVM raises the ERROR
    condition. If the specified overlay position is less than 1, greater than the size of
    the object, or the Unknown value (?), the AVM raises
    the ERROR condition.

    You can specify the TRIM option only if the target object is a BLOB or CLOB.
    In this case, the AVM copies the source object or file to the existing target object
    and truncates any data remaining in the target object. If the target object is a
    MEMPTR, the AVM ignores this option.

FILE target-filename[ APPEND ]: A character expression that specifies the name of the target file to
    which the object data in the specified source object or file is copied. You can specify
    an absolute or relative pathname. Any relative pathname is relative to the current
    working directory.

    If the target file does not exist, the AVM creates
    the file. If the target file exists, and you specify the APPEND option, the AVM opens the file and appends the object data to the
    end of a file. If the target file exists, but you do not specify the APPEND option, the AVM creates the target file anew (which
    overwrites the original file).

    If target-filename resolves to the Unknown value (?), or the target file cannot be created or written, the AVM raises the
    ERROR condition. The filename can contain Unicode characters.

    The AVM raises an error if both source-filename
    and target-filename are specified and they resolve
    to the same file.

NO-CONVERT | CONVERT convert-phrase: Lets you specify the character conversion behavior between the source
    and target objects.

    The NO-CONVERT
    option specifies that no conversions occur. However, if the target is a LONGCHAR or a
    CLOB, the AVM validates the character data based on the target object's code page. For
    a CLOB, this is the code page of the CLOB. For a LONGCHAR, this is -cpinternal unless the LONGCHAR's code page was set using
    the FIX-CODEPAGE statement. If the validation fails,
    the AVM raises the ERROR condition.

    The CONVERT option lets you specify how the AVM converts
    object data. Following is the syntax for convert-phrase:

    Specify SOURCE CODEPAGE to
    indicate that a source object is in the specified code page. If you specify TARGET CODEPAGE, the AVM converts the target object to the
    specified code page.

    The following table lists the default
    character conversions the AVM performs when copying data between the source and target
    objects. References to CLOBCP and CLOBDB represent CLOB data in either the CLOB's
    defined code page or the database's defined code page, respectively. References to the
    "fixed code page" represent the code page of a target LONGCHAR variable set using the
    FIX-CODEPAGE statement.

    Table 1. Default COPY-LOB statement character conversions

    Note:

    If either the source or the target object is a file, the target's
    code page defaults to -cpstream.

    The Byte Order Mark (BOM) or the encoding declaration is processed
    when a COPY-LOB operation reads from or writes to
    a FILE. For example, when a COPY-LOB statement
    copies data from a FILE (with a BOM) to a CLOB, the statement identifies and
    translates file content based on the BOM character but ignores the BOM character as
    part of the copy operation. And, when a COPY-LOB
    operation copies data from a CLOB to the beginning of a FILE, the statement prepends
    the BOM character, except when the BOM can be assumed; that is, the code page of the
    FILE target is UTF-8.

    Also, if the COPY-LOB operation
    is written to a STARTING-AT location embedded
    within the FILE, the BOM character is not prepended to the written content. For more
    information on encoding declarations, see the Use XML with
    ABL Applications guide.

NO-ERROR: The NO-ERROR option is used to prevent the statement from raising ERROR and displaying
    error messages.

Notes

 If a source or target object is stored in a database, its record must
  be available to copy. The lock mode of the record containing the target object must be
  EXCLUSIVE-LOCK or SHARE-LOCK and upgradeable;
  otherwise, the COPY-LOB statement raises the ERROR
  condition.
 You can also assign large object data from one BLOB or MEMPTR to
  another, and one CLOB or LONGCHAR to another, using the Assignment (=) statement or ASSIGN statement. You cannot use the
  Assignment (=) statement or ASSIGN statement to assign large object data
  between BLOBs or MEMPTRs and CLOBs or LONGCHARs.
 COPY-LOB file operations involving LONGCHAR variables
  are limited to 1GB - 1 byte.
 When using COPY-LOB from a BLOB field to a LONGCHAR variable, if the
  BLOB field contains the Unknown value (?), the LONGCHAR variable is set
  to the empty string ("").

See also

NO-ERROR option




ENTRY function

Returns a character string (CHARACTER or LONGCHAR) entry from a list based
on an integer position. The data type of the returned value matches the data type of the
list element.

Syntax

element: An integer value that corresponds to the position of a character
    string in a list of values. If the value of element
    does not correspond to an entry in the list, the AVM raises the ERROR
    condition. If the value of element is the Unknown
    value (?), ENTRY returns the Unknown
    value (?). If element is less than or equal to 0, or is larger than the number of
    elements in list, ENTRY returns an
    error.

list: A list of character strings separated with a delimiter. The list can be a variable of type CHARACTER or LONGCHAR. If the
    value of list is the Unknown value (?), ENTRY returns the Unknown value (?).

delimiter: A single CHARACTER delimiter you define for the list. The default is a
    comma. This allows the ENTRY function to operate on non-comma-separated
    lists. If you use an alphabetic character, this delimiter is case sensitive.

Examples

This procedure returns the day of the week that corresponds to a date the
user enters. The WEEKDAY function evaluates the date and returns, as an
integer, the day of the week for that date. The ENTRY function uses that
integer to indicate a position in a list of the days of the week.

r-entry.p

This is an example of a list separated by dashes
instead of commas (the result is "helvetica"):

r-entry2.p

The next procedure looks up UNIX login IDs in
a small password array and returns the name of the user:

r-entry3.p

Notes

The ENTRY function is double-byte enabled. It can return
an entry that contains double-byte characters from a specified list and the CHARACTER
delimiter can be a double-byte character.

See also

ENTRY statement, LOOKUP function, NUM-ENTRIES function




ENTRY statement

Used on the left-hand side of an assignment
to set the nth element to some value.

Syntax

element: An integer value that corresponds to the position of a character
    string in a list of values. If the value of element
    does not correspond to an entry in the list, the AVM raises the ERROR
    condition. If the value of element is the Unknown
    value (?), ENTRY returns the Unknown value (?). If element is less
    than or equal to 0, or is larger than the number of elements in list, ENTRY returns an error.

list: A list of character strings separated with a character delimiter. The
    list can be a variable of type CHARACTER or
    LONGCHAR. If the value of list is the Unknown value
    (?), ENTRY returns the Unknown value (?).

character: A delimiter you define for the list. The default is a comma. This
    allows functions to operate on non-comma-separated lists. The delimiter must be only a
    single character. If you specify a string of more than one character, only the first
    character is used. If you specify a null string (""), a space character is used as the
    delimiter. If you use an alphabetic character, this delimiter is case sensitive.

expression: A constant, field name, variable name, or expression that results in a
    character string whose value you want to store in the nth element in a list. ABL does not pad or truncate expression.

Note: The
+= Addition assignment operator can be used with the ENTRY statement.

Example

This
procedure uses three ENTRY statements:

r-ent-eq.p

The following example code uses the addition
assignment operator (+=) with the ENTRY statement.

Notes
• The ENTRY statement is double-byte enabled. It can insert an entry that
  contains double-byte characters into a specified list and the character delimiter can be a double-byte character.

See also

ENTRY function, LOOKUP function, NUM-ENTRIES function




EXP function

Returns the result of raising a number to a
power. The number is called the base and the
power is called the exponent.

Syntax

base: A constant, field name, variable name, or expression that evaluates to
    a numeric value.

exponent: A numeric expression.

Example

This
procedure calculates how much a principal amount invested at a given compounded
annual interest rate grows over a specified number of years:

r-exp.p

Notes

 After
  converting the base and exponent to the floating-point format, the
  EXP function uses standard system library routines. On some machines,
  these routines do not handle large numbers well and might cause
  your terminal to hang. Also, because the calculations are done in floating-point
  arithmetic, full decimal precision is not possible beyond 1-12 significant
  digits on most machines.
 The EXP function is precise to approximately 10 decimal points.




FILL function

Generates a character string made up of a character string
that is repeated a specified number of times.

Syntax

expression: An expression that yields a character value. This expression
    can contain double-byte characters.

repeats: A constant, field name, variable name, or expression with an
    integer value. The FILL function uses this value to repeat the expression you
    specify. If the value of repeats is less than
    or equal to 0, FILL produces a null string.

Example

This
example procedure produces a bar chart that depicts each Customer's balance
as a percentage of the total of all outstanding balances. The first
FOR EACH block accumulates the value of balance for each Customer,
producing a total balance value for all Customers. The next FOR
EACH block goes through the Customer table again, figuring each
Customer's balance as a percentage of the total.

r-fill.p

The FORM statement describes the frame layout,
including the name, the percentage of total balance, and a bar across
the top of the frame. (The bar variable is defined on-the-fly; it
has no corresponding DEFINE VARIABLE statement at the top of the
procedure. It is defined in the FORM statement and has its own label
and format.) The DISPLAY statement following the FORM statement
displays the bar variable. If the procedure is running on UNIX or
on a monochrome PC monitor, the AVM ignores the COLOR BRIGHT-RED. However,
if the procedure is running on a PC with a color monitor, the bar
is displayed in BRIGHT-RED (a predefined color on the PC). The final
DISPLAY statement displays the bars.

The fillchar assignment
statement sets the fill character to asterisk (\*). The FILL function
generates a string made up of fill characters that is the percentage
of total sales multiplied by three (each percentage point uses three
fill characters).




HEX-DECODE function

Converts
a string of type CHAR or
LONGCHAR consisting of an even number of hexadecimal digits (0 through 9
and A through F) into a MEMPTR value.

Syntax

expression: An
    expression of type CHAR or LONGCHAR containing the value you want
    to convert. If the expression does not contain an even number of hexadecimal
    digits, or it is the Unknown value (?), the
    result is the Unknown value (?). If the
    expression is a zero-length value, the result is a zero-length value.

Note: The BASE64-ENCODE,
BASE64-DECODE, HEX-ENCODE, and
HEX-DECODE functions do not do any byte ordering. However, the
binary output of these functions may be a binary data type such as a MEMPTR or RAW.
If the target of these operation’s output is another system where the order of bytes
(endianness) differs, you must first normalize the data to what the receiving side
is expecting. Otherwise, the results may not be as expected. For example, for a
MEMPTR value that you are building yourself, you can use the SET-BYTE-ORDER statement to set the byte order for the MEMPTR variable
before you read or write the value.

Example

The following code example illustrates how to use the
HEX-DECODE function:

Running this code displays the numeric byte values contained in the
MEMPTR returned by HEX-DECODE, one byte at a
time: 72, 101, 108,
108, 111.

See also

HEX-ENCODE function,
SET-BYTE-ORDER statement




HEX-ENCODE function

Converts a RAW or MEMPTR value into a string of type LONGCHAR
consisting of an even number of hexadecimal digits (0 through 9 and A through
F).

Syntax

expression: A RAW or MEMPTR expression containing the value you want to
    convert. If the expression is the Unknown value (?), the result is the Unknown value (?). If the expression is a zero-length value, the result is a
    zero-length value.

Note: The BASE64-ENCODE,
BASE64-DECODE, HEX-ENCODE, and
HEX-DECODE functions do not do any byte ordering. However, the
binary output of these functions may be a binary data type such as a MEMPTR or RAW.
If the target of these operation’s output is another system where the order of bytes
(endianness) differs, you must first normalize the data to what the receiving side
is expecting. Otherwise, the results may not be as expected. For example, for a
MEMPTR value that you are building yourself, you can use the SET-BYTE-ORDER statement to set the byte order for the MEMPTR variable
before you read or write the value.

Example

The following code example illustrates how to use the
HEX-ENCODE function:

Running this code produces a sequence of messages showing the byte values: 72, 101,
108, 108, 111, and then a final message with HEX-ENCODE result:
48656C6C6F.

See also

HEX-DECODE function, SET-BYTE-ORDER statement




INDEX function

Returns an INTEGER value that indicates the position of a search string
within a source string.

Syntax

source: A CHARACTER, LONGCHAR or MEMPTR expression.

searchString: A CHARACTER or LONGCHAR expression whose position you want to locate
    in source. If searchString does not exist within source, INDEX returns 0.

starting: An integer that specifies at which left-most position in the string to
    start the search. For example, INDEX("abcdefabcdef","abc",6) returns 7.: The starting position is in
    characters if source is a CHARACTER or LONGCHAR
    expression. The starting position is in bytes if
    source is a MEMPTR.

Examples

For this example, you must enter 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5. The INDEX function checks if the digit exists in the string
"12345".

r-index.p

This procedure also uses the starting
option:

r-index2.p

The following example demonstrates using the INDEX function on a MEMPTR variable:

Notes

 If source is a CHARACTER or LONGCHAR
  expression and either operand is case sensitive, the search is case sensitive.
 If source is a MEMPTR, case
  sensitivity depends on the searchString. If searchString is case sensitive, the search is case
  sensitive.
• If searchString is an empty string
  ("") or a null string ("?"), the function returns 0.

See also

LOOKUP function, R-INDEX function, Using MEMPTR




LC function

Converts any uppercase characters in a CHARACTER or LONGCHAR expression to
lowercase characters, and returns the result. The data type of the returned value matches
the data type of the expression passed to the function.

Syntax

expression: A constant, field name, variable name, or expression that results
    in a CHARACTER or LONGCHAR value.

Example

This
procedure finds a Customer record. After the user updates the SalesRep
field, the procedure converts the first character of the SalesRep
value to uppercase and the remaining characters to lowercase.

r-lc.p

The CAPS function uses the SUBSTRING function
to extract the first character of the field, which it then converts
to uppercase.

In the LC function, the result of the SUBSTRING
function is the remaining characters in the SalesRep field,
starting with character position 2. (No length is specified, so
the remainder of the string is assumed). The LC function converts
these characters to lowercase.

Notes

 The LC function returns lowercase characters relative to the settings of
  the Internal Code Page (-cpinternal) and Case Table (-cpcase) startup parameters. For more information on these parameters, see
  Startup Command and Parameter Reference.
 The LC function is double-byte enabled. The specified expression
  can yield a string containing double-byte characters; however, the
  LC function changes only single-byte characters in the string.

See also

CAPS function




LEFT-TRIM function

Removes leading white space, or other specified characters, from a CHARACTER
or LONGCHAR expression. The data type of the returned value matches the data type of the
expression passed to the function.

Syntax

expression: An expression (a constant, field name, variable name, or expression) whose
    value is a CHARACTER or LONGCHAR. If expression is
    a case-sensitive variable, the AVM performs a case-sensitive trim.
    If expression is a LONGCHAR, the result is in
    the same code page.

trim-chars: A character expression that specifies the characters to be trimmed from expression.
    If you do not specify trim-chars, the LEFT-TRIM
    function removes spaces, tabs, line feeds, and carriage returns.

Example

The
following example shows the effect of the TRIM, LEFT-TRIM, and RIGHT-TRIM
functions on a string value:

r-ltrim.p

Notes

 The
  LEFT-TRIM function is similar to the TRIM function except that it
  trims characters only from the left end of the string.
 If expression is a case-sensitive field or
  variable, then trim-chars is also as case sensitive. Otherwise, trim-chars is
  not case sensitive.
• The LEFT-TRIM function is double-byte enabled. The specified expression and trim-chars arguments
  can contain double-byte characters. LEFT-TRIM does not remove double-byte
  space characters by default.

See also

RIGHT-TRIM function, TRIM function




LENGTH function

Returns, as an INTEGER value, the number of
characters, bytes, or columns in a string, an expression of type
RAW, or a BLOB field.

Syntax

exp: An expression that evaluates to a CHARACTER, LONGCHAR, INTEGER,
    LOGICAL, or CLOB type. If exp evaluates to an INTEGER
    or LOGICAL, the STRING function is used to first convert it to a character string before
    returning the length. For a LOGICAL, YES/TRUE returns 3 and NO/FALSE returns 2.

raw-exp: A function or variable name that returns a RAW value.

blob-field: An expression that evaluates to a BLOB field.

type: A character expression that indicates whether you want the length of
    exp in character units, bytes, or columns. A
    double-byte character registers as one character unit. By default, the unit of
    measurement is character units.

    There are three valid types:
    "CHARACTER", "RAW", and "COLUMN".
    The expression "CHARACTER" indicates that the length is measured in
    characters, including double-byte characters. The expression "RAW"
    indicates that the length is measured in bytes. The expression
    "COLUMN" indicates that the length is measured in display or print
    character-columns. If you specify the type as a
    constant expression, ABL validates the type specification at compile time. If you
    specify the type as a non-constant expression, the
    AVM validates the type specification at run time for a multi-byte codepage..

    Note: The expression
    "COLUMN" is not valid for a LONGCHAR variable or a CLOB
    field.

Examples

This
procedure produces a report that contains item information. Because the
information on the report fills the entire width of the screen,
this procedure shortens the information in the description field
for each item. If the description of an item is longer than eight
characters, the procedure converts the description to the first
eight characters followed by ellipses.

r-length.p

In this procedure, the LENGTH function returns the number
of bytes in the Name of number 29. The procedure returns a
15, the number of bytes in the Name, Bug in a Rug-by.

r-rawlen.p

Note

If the value of the expression is the Unknown value (?), the LENGTH function returns the Unknown
value (?).




LENGTH statement

Changes the number of bytes in a raw variable.

Syntax

variable: A variable of type RAW.

expression: An expression that returns an integer.

Note: You
can use compound assignment operators (+=, -=, =, /=) with the LENGTH statement. For more
information, see += Addition assignment operator, -= Subtraction assignment operator, \= Multiplication assignment operator, and /= Division assignment operator.

Example

This
procedure takes the number of bytes in the name stored in the variable r1
and truncates it to 2 bytes:

r-rawln1.p

The following example code uses the
= assignment operator to double the number of bytes for
the variable.

Notes

 If variable is
  the Unknown value (?), it remains the Unknown value (?).
• If expression is greater than the number
  of bytes in variable, the AVM appends null bytes
  so that the length of variable equals the length
  of expression.




LOOKUP function

Returns an INTEGER value giving the position
of an expression in a list. Returns a 0 if the expression is not
in the list.

Syntax

expression: A constant, field name, variable name, or expression that results in a
    character value that you want to look up within a list of character expressions. If the
    value of expression is the Unknown value (?), the result of the LOOKUP function is the
    Unknown value (?).

list: A character expression that contains the expression you name with the
    expression argument. Each entry in the list is
    separated with a delimiter. The list can be a variable of type CHARACTER or LONGCHAR. If
    list contains the Unknown value (?), LOOKUP returns the Unknown value
    (?).

delimiter: A single-character delimiter you define for the list. The delimiter is
    used as is, that is, it is case sensitive. The default is a comma. This allows the
    LOOKUP function to operate on non-comma-separated lists.

Examples

This procedure prompts the user for a New England state. The
LOOKUP function tests the value against the list of states stored in the
stlist variable. If there is no match (the result is 0), the procedure
displays a message. Otherwise, the procedure prompts the user for another New England
state.

r-lookup.p

The following example uses a different delimiter,
which list all fields that have "sls" or "sales"
as words in their standard Dictionary labels:

r-look2.p

Notes

 If expression contains a delimiter,
  LOOKUP returns the beginning of a series of entries in list. For example, LOOKUP("a,b,c","x,a,b,c")
  returns a 2.
 Most character comparisons are case insensitive in ABL. By default,
  upper-case and lower-case characters have the same sort value. However, you can define
  fields and variables as case sensitive (although it is not advised, unless strict ANSI SQL
  adherence is required). If the expression or list is defined as case sensitive, the comparison between them
  is also case sensitive and "Smith" does not equal
  "smith".
 The LOOKUP function is double-byte enabled. The
  specified expression can yield a string value that
  contains double-byte characters and the delimiter can be a double-byte character.
 The LOOKUP function always returns 0 if an expression
  is equal to a delimiter.

See also

ENTRY function, ENTRY statement, INDEX function, NUM-ENTRIES function




NORMALIZE function

Returns the normalized form of a character
string based on the specified Unicode normalization form.

Syntax

string: The source string to normalize. The value may be of type CHARACTER
    or LONGCHAR.

If the string is a CHARACTER
value, -cpinternal must be set to UTF-8. If the
string is a LONGCHAR value, its code page can be any form of Unicode
(for example, UTF-8, UTF-16, or UTF-32). This function returns a
value of the same data type as the source string.

normalization-form: A character expression that evaluates to one of the following Unicode
    normalization forms:

     NFD — Canonical Decomposition
     NFC — Canonical Decomposition, followed by Canonical Composition
     NFKD — Compatibility Decomposition
     NFKC — Compatibility Decomposition, followed by Canonical
      Composition
• NONE — Returns the source string unchanged




NUM-ENTRIES function

Returns the number of elements in a list of
character strings as an INTEGER value.

Syntax

list: A character expression containing a list of character strings
    separated with a character delimiter. The list can be a variable
    of type CHARACTER or LONGCHAR. NUM-ENTRIES returns the number of elements
    in the list. Specifically, NUM-ENTRIES returns the number of delimiters
    plus 1, and it returns 0 if list equals the empty string ("").

character: A delimiter you define for the list. The default is a comma
    (,). This allows functions to operate on non-comma-separated lists.
    If you use an alphabetic character, this delimiter is case sensitive.

Examples

This
procedure uses NUM-ENTRIES and ENTRY to loop through a list of regions
and display them, one per line. Since there are obviously five regions, the
REPEAT statement, REPEAT ix = 1 TO 5, works fine here.

r-n-ent1.p

In the following example, PROPATH is
a comma-separated list of unknown length:

r-n-ent2.p

This procedure uses NUM-ENTRIES to loop through
the PROPATH (a comma-separated list of directory
paths) and print the directories, one per line.

This example
uses a list that does not use commas as a delimiter. This procedure
returns a value of 13:

r-n-ent3.p

Note

The NUM-ENTRIES
function is multi-byte enabled. The specified list can
contain entries that have multi-byte characters and the character delimiter
can be a multi-byte character.

See also

ENTRY function, ENTRY statement, LOOKUP function




OVERLAY statement

Inserts content from a specified expression
into a field or variable replacing existing characters, bytes, or
columns.

Syntax

target: The name of a CHARACTER field or variable, or a LONGCHAR variable,
    that you want to overlay with the expression.

position: An integer expression that indicates the first position in the target where
    you want to overlay the expression. The value
    of the position must be positive. If the position is longer
    than the target, ABL pads the target with
    blanks to match the position.

length: An integer expression that indicates the number of positions you want
    to allocate for the storage of the expression. The
    expression is truncated or padded with blanks to
    match length. If you do not use the length argument or specify -1 as the length, OVERLAY uses the entire expression.

type: A character expression that directs ABL to interpret the specified
    position and length values as character units, bytes, or columns. A double-byte
    character registers as one character unit. By default, ABL interprets the specified
    position and length values as character units.

    There are three valid
    types: "CHARACTER", "RAW", and
    "COLUMN". The expression "CHARACTER" specifies
    character units. The expression "RAW" specifies bytes. The expression
    "COLUMN" specifies display or print character-columns. If you
    specify the type as a constant expression, ABL validates the type specification at
    compile time. If you specify the type as a non-constant expression, the AVM validates
    the type specification at run time for a multi-byte codepage.

    Note: If the target is a LONGCHAR expression,
    "CHARACTER" is the only valid type.

expression: A CHARACTER or LONGCHAR expression that results in a character string
    you want to overlay on the target. If you specify the
    length, the expression is truncated or padded with blanks to match the length.

Example

The r-replc1.p procedure lets you
search for, and replace text strings in a paragraph in a window. When you run the procedure,
you see the paragraph, which is an array with an extent of five. You also see a prompt.
Enter the text string you want the system to search for, and the new text you want in its
place. The procedure searches the paragraph, one line at a time, for the text you entered.
The procedure uses the OVERLAY statement to replace the string of old text
with the string of new text. The procedure also determines the length of the old text and
the new text.

r-replc1.p

Notes

 The SUBSTRING and OVERLAY statements
  use the length option differently. For both, the
  length indicates how much of the target to replace. However, SUBSTRING always
  inserts the full expression and never pads the expression to match the length. By contrast, the length in
  OVERLAY determines how much ABL adds to the target, even if ABL must truncate the expression or pad it with spaces. See the r-sub-over.p procedure for an illustration the differences between these two
  statements.
 Do not split double-byte characters. This statement allows you to
  overlay either the lead or trail-byte of the target string when you specify
  "RAW" as the type parameter.

See also

SUBSTRING function, SUBSTRING statement




QUOTER function

Converts the specified data type to CHARACTER
and encloses the results in quotes when necessary.

The QUOTER function is intended for use in
QUERY-PREPARE where a character predicate must be created from a
concatenated list of string variables to form a WHERE clause. In order to
process variables, screen values, and input values so that they are suitable for a query
WHERE clause, it is often necessary to enclose them in quotes. For
example, European-format decimals and character variables must always be enclosed in quotes.
You can use the QUOTER function to meet that requirement.

Syntax

expression: An expression in the data type that you want to
    convert to character and enclose with quotes.

quote-char: Either a single or double quote, enclosed in the opposite:
    "'" or '"'. The default is double quote. Passing? for this argument results in double quotes.

null-string: The string you want for an unknown value: the word
    NULL or "" for example. The default is an unquoted
    question mark, which is the Unknown value (?).

    For example, the following code:

    Would produce this prepare-string:

Notes

 To address the situation where an Unknown value (?) in a list of concatenated strings could cause the entire string to be
  unknown and the QUERY-PREPARE to fail, the QUOTER
  function does not return the Unknown value (?) if the expression argument is unknown.
  Instead, it returns a known character value consisting of an unquoted
  question-mark, by default, or the third argument, if it is present.
 Also, in this situation, a quoted question-mark is not used because it
  is interpreted as string data in a WHERE clause. After the concatenation
  is complete, the AVM supplies a normal question mark.

  For example, the
  following code:

  Would produce this prepare-string:

  However, giving the third parameter as "NULL" produces NULL rather
  than?.
 For noncharacter data types, if expression is of type DECIMAL, INT64, INTEGER, DATE, DATETIME, DATETIME-TZ,
  and so on, the following occurs:
• The expression is converted to
    character and enclosed in quotes. The conversion is similar to the
    EXPORT format. DATE types, however, always have the 4-digit year.
• Data types with no DISPLAY format like MEMPTR and
    LVARBINARY return the Unknown value (?).
• If a data type is of type RAW, it is converted to base 64.

  For example, the following code:

  Would produce this prepare-string:

  This is especially important for European format
  decimals that look like 12,34 and would not compile in the above
  statement unless they are enclosed in quotes.
 If expression is of data type
  CHARACTER, quotes that are part of the string are doubled. However, if the first and last
  characters are already quotes, then it is assumed that the quoting has already been done,
  and no further quotes are applied. Since QUOTER allows you to define
  quote-char to either the single or the double quote character, you
  can specify quote-char so it does not match the quotes in the character
  expression.

  For example, if there is a record whose Name field is set
  to "Lift Line Skiing", including the quotes, the string in the
  WHERE clause must also contain quotes or the record is not returned
  by the query.

  The following is the resulting query string which would not include
  the desired record:

  To avoid this issue, specify a single quote for the
  quote-char parameter:

  The resulting query string contains the proper value and matches
  the value in the record:

 You can use the QUOTER function with an object
  reference for a class instance to obtain a unique object identifier within the session as
  a quoted character string.
 When applied to an enum instance, QUOTER will return
  the enumeration member name as a string. If the enum instance is a flag enum with multiple
  flags set, the string will be a comma-delimited list of the flags.




R-INDEX function

Returns an INTEGER value that indicates the
position of the target string within the source string. In contrast
to the INDEX function, R-INDEX performs the search from right to
left.

Syntax

source: A constant, field name, variable name, or expression that results
    in a CHARACTER or LONGCHAR value.

target: A CHARACTER or LONGCHAR expression whose position you want to
    locate in source. If target does
    not exist within source, R-INDEX returns 0.

    If
    a starting parameter is not specified, then the
    search for the target pattern begins at the right-most
    character. Even though the search is started from the right, the target position
    is calculated from the left. For example, this code returns a 3
    rather than a 2:

starting: An integer that specifies the begin point for the search. The
    search is right-to-left and starts from the starting point. For
    example, this statement returns 1 R-INDEX("abcdefabcdef","abc",6).

Examples

This
procedure prompts you to enter a character string and a pattern
to match against the string. It then displays the starting position
of the string where the pattern was found.

r-rindex.p

This example also uses a starting value:

r-rndex.p

Notes

 If
  either operand is case sensitive, then the R-INDEX function is also
  case sensitive.
 If either the source string or target pattern
  is null, the result is 0.
• The R-INDEX function is double-byte enabled. You can specify target and source strings
  for the R-INDEX function that contain double-byte characters.

See also

INDEX function, LOOKUP function




REPLACE function

Returns a string with specified substring replacements. The data type of the
returned value matches the data type of the expression passed to the function.

Syntax

source-string: Specifies the base string to make replacements in. The source-string parameter can be any expression that evaluates
    to a string or a LONGCHAR. The REPLACE function does not change the
    value of source-string itself; the function returns
    the string with replacements.

from-string: Specifies the substring to replace. The from-string parameter can be any expression that evaluates to a string or a
    LONGCHAR. Each occurrence of from-string within
    source-string is replaced.

to-string: Specifies the replacement substring. The to-string parameter
    can be any expression that evaluates to a string or a LONGCHAR.
    Each occurrence of from-string in source-string is
    replaced by to-string.

Example

The following example uses the REPLACE function to replace
the string "user" with an actual user ID, if available:

r-repl.p

Notes

 The REPLACE function replaces all occurrences of
  from-string within source-string. After replacing a substring, the REPLACE
  function resumes searching the string after the inserted text. Thus, the inserted text is
  not recursively searched (in whole or in part) for from-string.
 The search for occurrences of from-string within source-string is
  not case sensitive, unless one of the three values used in the function (source-string, to-string,
  or from-string) is a case-sensitive field or
  variable.
• If any of the arguments to the REPLACE function evaluate to the Unknown
  value (?), the function returns the Unknown value
  (?).

See also

OVERLAY statement, SUBSTITUTE function, SUBSTRING function




RIGHT-TRIM function

Removes trailing white space, or other specified characters, from a
CHARACTER or LONGCHAR expression. The data type of the returned value matches the data type
of the expression passed to the function.

Syntax

expression: An expression (a constant, field name, variable name, or expression) whose
    value is a CHARACTER or LONGCHAR. If expression is
    a case-sensitive variable, the AVM performs a case-sensitive trim.
    If expression is a LONGCHAR, the result is in
    the same code page.

trim-chars: A character expression that specifies the characters to trim
    from expression. If you do not specify trim-chars,
    the RIGHT-TRIM function removes spaces, tabs, line feeds, and carriage returns.

Example

The
following example shows the effects of the TRIM, RIGHT-TRIM, and LEFT-TRIM
functions:

r-ltrim.p

Notes

 The
  RIGHT-TRIM function is similar to the TRIM function except that
  it trims characters only from the right end of the string.
 If expression is a case-sensitive field or
  variable, then trim-chars is also treated as
  case sensitive. Otherwise, trim-chars is not
  case sensitive.
• The RIGHT-TRIM function is double-byte enabled. The specified expression and trim-chars arguments
  can contain double-byte characters. RIGHT-TRIM does not remove double-byte
  space characters by default.

See also

LEFT-TRIM function, TRIM function




SEARCH function

Searches the directories and libraries defined in the PROPATH environment
variable for a file. The SEARCH function returns the full pathname of the
file unless it is found in your current working directory. If SEARCH does
not find the file, it returns the Unknown value (?).

Syntax

opsys-file: A character expression whose value is the name of the file you want to
    find. The name can include a complete or partial directory path. If opsys-file is a constant string, you must enclose it in
    quotation marks (" "). The value of opsys-file must
    be no more than 255 characters long. The filename can contain Unicode characters. See
    Internationalize ABL Applications for more information
    about Unicode.

Example

In this procedure, the SEARCH function returns the fully
qualified pathname of the filename entered if it is not in the current working directory. If
SEARCH cannot find the file, it returns the Unknown value (?). The procedure displays the fully qualified pathname or a
message indicating that the file could not be found.

r-search.p

Notes

 The SEARCH function is double-byte enabled. You can
  specify a filename with the opsys-file argument that
  contains double-byte characters.
 Use the SEARCH function to ensure that procedures that
  get input from external data files are independent of specific directory paths. The files
  must be in one of the directories or libraries defined in the PROPATH environment
  variable.
 Typically, the PROPATH includes a nil entry representing the current
  working directory. If the SEARCH function finds the file when searching
  this entry, it returns only the simple name of the file rather than the full pathname. If
  the PROPATH does not include a nil entry or another entry that specifies the current
  working directory, the SEARCH function does not search the current
  working directory.
 If you provide a fully qualified pathname, SEARCH
  checks if the file exists. In this case, SEARCH does not search
  directories on the PROPATH.
 When you search for a file that is in a library, SEARCH
  returns the file's pathname in the form path-name>, where path-name is the pathname of the library and member-name is the name of the file. The double angle brackets indicate that
  the file is a member of a library. For example, in the path /usr/apps.pl>, proc1.r is the
  name of the file in the library apps.pl.

  The
  LIBRARY function and MEMBER function use the special
  syntax to return, respectively, the library name and member-name of the file in the library.
 If an application repeatedly runs a procedure, you can improve
  performance by using the SEARCH function once to build a full pathname
  for that procedure. Use this value in the RUN statement to avoid repeated
  searches of the PROPATH.
 In Windows, you can specify URL pathnames on the PROPATH. If the file is
  found in a directory specified by a URL, SEARCH returns the full URL
  pathname of the file which includes the filename appended to the URL PROPATH entry. If you
  provide a fully-qualified URL, SEARCH checks if the file exists. In this
  case, SEARCH does not search URLs on the PROPATH. Valid URL protocols
  include HTTP and HTTPS.

  Note: URL pathnames cannot contain the
  percent symbol (%). If an error exists in a URL
  specified on the PROPATH, the SEARCH function continues searching with
  the next PROPATH entry.
 If you specify URL pathnames on the PROPATH and your application
  repeatedly uses the LOAD-ICON(), LOAD-SMALL-ICON(), LOAD-IMAGE(),
  LOAD-IMAGE-DOWN(), LOAD-IMAGE-UP(), LOAD-IMAGE-INSENSITIVE(), or
  LOAD-MOUSE-POINTER() methods with a URL pathname, you can improve performance
  by using the SEARCH function once to determine the full URL pathname to
  the directory containing the image files. Use this value with the load methods to avoid
  repeated searches of the PROPATH.




STRING function

Converts a value of any data type into a character value.

Syntax

source: An expression of any data type that you want to convert to
    a character value.

format: The format you want to use for the new character value. This format
    must be appropriate to the data type of source. If
    you do not use this argument, ABL uses the EXPORT format for all data
    types (except DATETIME and DATETIME-TZ, in which case it uses the default display
    format). This is useful if you want to produce left-justified numbers. For information
    on data display formats, see Develop ABL
    Applications.

Example

In the example procedure, the TIME function returns the
number of seconds since midnight. The first DISPLAY statement in this
procedure uses the STRING function to convert that value into hours and
minutes. TIME is the value and "HH:MM AM" is the format
used to display the result of the STRING function.

The second DISPLAY statement displays some
Customer information. It uses the concatenation (+)
operator to join together the values of the City, State, and PostalCode fields. If
these fields were not joined together, the spacing would be different for each
Customer address depending on the length of the city name.

r-string.p

When you concatenate character fields, the AVM creates a new character
field, at least for the duration of the procedure. The default display format for character
expressions such as that resulting from the concatenation is x(8). This
means that the AVM allows only 8 spaces for displaying the concatenation of the City, State, and PostalCode fields. The FORMAT x(22) option
overrides that default x(8) format, telling the AVM to set aside 22 spaces
for displaying the concatenation of the City, State, and PostalCode
fields.

Notes

 The STRING function is double-byte enabled. The
  source argument can contain double-byte data.
 If source is an integer and format begins HH:MM or
  HH:MM:SS, STRING formats the source as a time. If the hour is greater than or equal to 12 and there is an
  A or an a in format, STRING subtracts 12 from the hour and converts the
  A or the a to a P or
  p (for A.M. and P.M.). The hour 0 is treated as 12 a.m., and noon is
  treated as 12 p.m. If you use AM/PM format, HH is replaced by a leading
  blank and a digit if the hour is between 0 and 9.

  If seconds
  (SS) are not in the format, then the time is truncated to hours and
  minutes.
 If source is a RAW value, you must
  specify an appropriate format to return the character
  string representation.
 When source is a DATETIME or
  DATETIME-TZ expression, the STRING function converts the expression to a
  character value in the specified format. If source is a
  DATETIME expression, and a time zone offset is present in the format string, the character
  value contains the time zone offset of the session. If source is a DATETIME-TZ expression, and time zone offset is not present in
  the format string, the character value contains the local date and time relative to the
  time zone of the DATETIME-TZ value.
 The STRING function converts a DATE, and the date part
  of a DATETIME or DATETIME-TZ, using the format specified by the DATE-FORMAT attribute or the Date Format
  (-d) startup parameter.

  For more
  information about the Date Format (-d) startup
  parameter, see Startup Command and Parameter
  Reference.
 You can use the STRING function to convert an object
  reference for a class instance to a character value. The STRING function
  implicitly calls the ToString() method (Object) of the class to convert the specified object reference.
 When applied to an enum instance, the STRING function
  implicitly calls the ToString() method (Object), which returns the name of the enumeration member, or a
  comma-delimited list of members in the case of a flag enum with multiple flags set. If the
  flag enum instance has no flags set or an underlying numeric value of 0 and no specific
  member defined for 0, the function returns the empty string ("").
 For more information on the STRING function, see Convert data to the ABL CHARACTER type in
  Basic ABL.

See also

DECIMAL function, INTEGER function, ToString() method (Object)




SUBSTITUTE function

Returns a character string that is made up of a base string plus the
substitution of arguments in the string. It allows you to use a single string in place of
concatenated strings. The function is designed to simplify the task of translating an
application from one language to another and is similar to the sprintf function in the C programming language. The data type returned reflects
the data type used in its input parameter. For example, if the input parameter is a
LONGCHAR, then the function returns a LONGCHAR; if the input parameter is a CHARACTER, then
the function returns a CHARACTER.

Syntax

base-string: A CHARACTER or LONGCHAR variable optionally containing substitution
    parameters of the form &n, where n is
    an integer between 1 and 9, inclusive.

arg: A constant, field name, variable, or expression that results
    in a CHARACTER or LONGCHAR value. These argument values replace substitution
    parameters in base-string.

Example

These
statements display the same message:

You can alter the position of the substitution
parameters, as in this statement:

Notes

 The
  SUBSTITUTE function is double-byte enabled. The specified base-string and arg values
  can contain double-byte characters.
 To include an ampersand character in base-string,
  enter two ampersands (&&).
 The character following the ampersand character must be a digit,
  or the AVM returns a run-time error.
 To display the result of the SUBSTITUTE function in a frame,
  you must specify FORMAT or accept the default format of X(8).
 If you use a substitution parameter in base-string but do not specify
  a corresponding argument, the AVM replaces the substitution parameter with an empty
  string.
 The SUBSTITUTE function converts Unknown value (?) parameters into
  empty strings.
 If the length of the resulting substitution exceeds the maximum length
  for the data type of the original string, an error occurs.
 Any substitution parameter can appear multiple times in base string.
  For example:

  The previous code fragment displays the following line:

See also

REPLACE function




SUBSTRING function

Extracts a portion of a character string from a field or variable.

Syntax

source: A CHARACTER or LONGCHAR expression from which you want to
    extract characters or bytes.

position: An integer expression that indicates the position of the
    first character you want to extract from source.

length: An integer expression that indicates the number of
    characters you want to extract from source. If you do not use the length argument or specify -1 as the length,
    SUBSTRING uses the remainder of the string from the
    specified position.

    Note: If you specify 0 as the sub-string length to retrieve,
    the function does not throw an error and returns an empty
    sub-string.

type: A CHARACTER expression that directs ABL to interpret the
    specified position and length values as character units, bytes,
    or columns. A double-byte character registers as one character unit. By
    default, ABL interprets the specified position and length
    values as character units.

    There are four valid types: "CHARACTER",
    "FIXED", "COLUMN", and
    "RAW". The expression "CHARACTER"
    specifies character units. The expression "FIXED"
    specifies that position is in
    character units and the length is in bytes, but directs
    SUBSTRING to yield only whole characters. That is,
    if the last byte or bytes represent part of, but not all of, a
    multi-byte character, these bytes are excluded. The expression
    "COLUMN" specifies display or print
    character-columns. The expression "RAW" specifies
    bytes. If you specify the type as a
    constant expression, ABL validates the type specification at compile
    time. If you specify the type as a
    non-constant expression, the AVM validates the type specification at run
    time for a multi-byte codepage.

    Note: If source
    is a LONGCHAR expression, "CHARACTER" is the only valid
    type and the default type.

Example

The r-substr.p procedure uses
the SUBSTRING function to create invoice numbers. You supply a
starting invoice number. The first SUBSTRING function produces the
first two characters of today's date; the second SUBSTRING function
produces the last two characters of today's date. The procedure concatenates these
four characters to a hyphen and the number you entered to produce an invoice
number.

r-substr.p

See also

OVERLAY statement, SUBSTRING statement




SUBSTRING statement

Inserts content from a specified expression
into a field or variable, optionally replacing existing characters,
bytes, or columns.

Syntax

target: A field or variable of type CHARACTER or LONGCHAR in which
    you want to store the specified expression.

position: An integer expression that indicates the position in the target where
    you want to start storing the expression. If
    the position is longer than the target,
    ABL pads the target with blanks to equal the
    length of the position.

length: An integer expression that indicates the number of positions you want
    to replace in the target. If you specify a length
    of 0, the entire expression is inserted at the
    position and everything else moves to the right.
    If you do not use the length argument or specify -1
    as the length, SUBSTRING puts the entire expression into the target, replacing
    an equal amount of the target.

type: A character expression that directs ABL to interpret the specified
    position and length values as character units, bytes, or columns. A double-byte
    character registers as one character unit. By default, ABL interprets the specified
    position and length values as character units.

    There are three valid type values:
    "CHARACTER", "RAW", and "COLUMN". The value "CHARACTER" specifies character units. The value "RAW" specifies bytes. The value "COLUMN" specifies display or print character-columns. If you specify the
    type as a constant expression, ABL validates the
    type specification at compile time. If you
    specify the type as a non-constant expression, the
    AVM validates the type specification at run time
    for a multi-byte codepage.

    Note: If the target is a LONGCHAR expression,
    "CHARACTER" is the only valid type value.

expression: A constant, field name, variable name, or expression of CHARACTER
    or LONGCHAR data type that results in a character string whose value
    you want to insert in the target. ABL does not pad
    or truncate expression.

Note: The
+= Addition assignment operator can be used with the SUBSTRING statement.

Examples

The following procedure uses the SUBSTRING statement to
replace a segment of text with the expression in the SUBSTRING statement
XXXXXXXXX. The procedure first displays the text you can work with in the
Original Text frame. Then the procedure prompts you for the start position of the
replacement and the length of the replacement. Under the WORD heading, you see the revised
text.

r-sub.p

The SUBSTRING and OVERLAY statements use
the length option differently. For both, the length indicates how much of the target to replace. However, SUBSTRING always inserts the full
expression and never pads the expression to match the length. By contrast,
the length in OVERLAY determines how
much ABL adds to the target, even if ABL must truncate
the expression or pad it with spaces. The following
procedure illustrates the differences between these two statements.

r-sub-over.p

Notes
• Do not split double-byte characters. This statement allows you to
  replace either the lead- or trail-byte of the target string when you specify
  "RAW" for the type parameter.

See also

OVERLAY statement, SUBSTRING function




TRIM function

Removes leading and trailing white space, or other specified characters,
from a CHARACTER or LONGCHAR expression. The data type of the returned value matches the
data type of the expression passed to the function.

Syntax

expression: An expression (a constant, field name, variable name, or
    expression) whose value is a CHARACTER or LONGCHAR. If expression is
    a case-sensitive variable, the AVM performs a case-sensitive trim.
    If expression is a LONGCHAR, the result is in
    the same code page.

trim-chars: A character expression that specifies the characters to trim
    from expression. If you do not specify trim-chars,
    the TRIM function removes spaces, tabs, line feeds, and carriage returns.

Examples

The
following procedure displays a menu that you can use to display Customer
and Order information. The option numbers are displayed with leading
spaces. The TRIM function removes the leading white space so the menu
selection can be easily evaluated.

r-trim.p

The following example reads a text file and
breaks it into words. It assumes that all words are separated by
at least one space character. It uses the TRIM function with one
parameter to remove white space from the ends of each input line.
It then uses the TRIM function with two parameters to remove any
punctuation characters from each word.

r-trim2.p

Notes

 The
  TRIM function is double-byte enabled. The specified expression and trim-chars arguments
  can contain double-byte characters. TRIM does not remove double-byte
  space characters by default.
 A character string displays with the default format of x(8),
  unless you specify a format or use a statement such as DISPLAY @ literal.
 You can use the DEBLANK option of the Format phrase to remove leading
  spaces for fields in the input buffer.
 If expression is a case-sensitive field or
  variable, then trim-chars is also case sensitive.
  Otherwise, trim-chars is not case sensitive.

See also

LEFT-TRIM function, RIGHT-TRIM function




TRUNCATE function

Truncates a decimal expression to a specified
number of decimal places, returning a decimal value.

Syntax

expression: A decimal expression that you want to truncate.

decimal-places: A non-negative integer expression that indicates the number
    of decimal places for a truncated expression.

Example

This
procedure doubles each Customer's CreditLimit and
then truncates that value before rounding it to the nearest $1000:

r-trunc.p

Notes

You
can use the TRUNCATE function to treat division as integer division. For
example, i = TRUNCATE (x / y, 0).

See also

ROUND function




