TRANSACTION-MODE AUTOMATIC statement

(PAS for OE only)

Causes the procedure file that executes this statement to become an
automatic transaction initiating procedure. This transaction initiating procedure allows you
to control an automatic transaction in the context of an application server session.

Note: Does not apply to SpeedScript programming.

Syntax

CHAINED: Tells the application server session to automatically create a new
    transaction every time the current transaction is either committed or rolled back.

Notes

 This statement must appear before any other executable statement in a
  top-level persistent procedure (transaction initiating procedure) running on the
  application server.
 You can control an automatic transaction by accessing the attributes and
  methods of the transaction object. You can access these attributes and methods on the
  transaction handle returned by the TRANSACTION attribute of any application server
  procedure handle.
 An automatic transaction remains open in an application server session until:
• The current request service returns control to the client after an
    application server procedure invokes the transaction handle SET-COMMIT() method or SET-ROLLBACK() method.
• The transaction initiating procedure is deleted from the
    session.
 If you specify the CHAINED option, a transaction is always active in the
  application server session until either the transaction initiating procedure is deleted or
  the application server session terminates.
 If you do not specify the CHAINED option and the transaction
  initiating procedure is still active, after the current transaction
  terminates, a client application can start a new transaction by
  directly calling any remote internal procedure of the transaction
  initiating procedure. When so executed, this remote internal procedure
  (which can otherwise be empty) creates a new transaction that you
  can control using the transaction handle.
 As long as an automatic transaction is open, you can execute any
  internal procedure of the current transaction initiating procedure from any other
  procedure running on the application server. However, if no automatic transaction is open,
  only a client application can execute such an internal procedure as a remote procedure
  call, which then opens an automatic transaction. If an application server procedure tries
  to execute such an internal procedure with no automatic transaction open, the procedure
  call returns an error.
• If a transaction is open when you delete the transaction initiating procedure,
  the transaction is committed or rolled back according to the value
  of the transaction handle DEFAULT-COMMIT attribute.

See also

Transaction object handle




TRANSACTION function

Returns a LOGICAL value that indicates whether
a transaction is currently active.

Syntax

See also

Transaction object handle




