ACTIVE-FORM system reference

(Windows only; GUI for.NET)

An object reference to the last.NET form or ABL window to receive focus. The object
reference returned by ACTIVE-FORM has the OpenEdge.NET Progress.Windows.IForm interface type.

Syntax

Notes

 ACTIVE-FORM
  references instances of any class that ABL recognizes as a form,
  including the following form classes:
• Progress.Windows.Form class — A custom OpenEdge.NET
    form class that encapsulates a.NET System.Windows.Forms.Form for use within an ABL session. If a.NET form is
    last to receive focus and you use the Progress.Windows.Form class to instantiate all.NET forms, ACTIVE-FORM
    references the affected Progress.Windows.Form
    instance.
• Progress.Windows.FormProxy class — An OpenEdge.NET form class that
    is associated with each ABL window instantiated in any ABL session that references.NET objects. If an ABL window is last to receive focus, ACTIVE-FORM references the
    Progress.Windows.FormProxy object associated with the affected
    window.
 If the last ABL window to receive focus is the default window, ACTIVE-FORM
  returns the Unknown value (?), because ABL does not create
  a FormProxy object for the default window.
• You cannot use ACTIVE-FORM if the window with focus is not a
  Progress.Windows.Form or a native ABL window. If you directly
  instantiate.NET forms using System.Windows.Forms.Form (or any other
  native.NET form class), you must use the.NET ActiveForm property to
  identify the native.NET form instance that has focus.
  Progress.Windows.Form also inherits the ActiveForm
  property from System.Windows.Forms.Form, and this property also
  references the.NET native form instance that a given
  Progress.Windows.Form object represents. However,
  Progress.Windows.FormProxy
  does not inherit the ActiveForm property and does not provide a
  meaningful reference when an ABL window has focus.

See also

ACTIVE-WINDOW system handle, Progress.Windows.Form class, Progress.Windows.FormProxy class




APPLY statement

Applies an event to a widget or procedure.

Syntax

event: An expression whose value is the key code or event name that you want
    to apply. Event can be either a character-string
    value (event name) or an integer (key code) expression. A special value of event is the value of the LASTKEY function. The LASTKEY
    function returns the keycode for the last event read from the user (that is, from the
    keyboard or mouse) or the last character read from an input file.
    Event can also be “ERROR”, in which case it raises error in the
    current block. This can be handled by an ON ERROR block or by other
    standard error handling techniques. Event can also be
    a developer event (U1 to U10 or CLOSE). For more information on default system actions
    and events, see the Handle-based Object Events Reference.

TO widget-phrase: Specifies a widget or procedure to which the event is applied.

Example

This
procedure shows how to use the APPLY statement to create keyboard accelerators.
When you run this procedure you can invoke the trigger block attached
to the order-but button by choosing the button directly or by pressing F10 in the Name field. When you
press F10, the AVM sends the CHOOSE
event to the button. This is equivalent to choosing the button with the
mouse.

r-apply.p

Notes

 You can apply any event to any widget, including an insensitive widget. Most
  event-widget pairs have a default system action, but a few do. For example, the default
  system action for the A event on a fill-in widget is to insert the letter A into the
  fill-in at the current cursor location; however, there is no default system action for the
  A event on a button widget. Also, if you APPLY an event to a button, for example, the
  image of the button does not "depress" and then "pop back out." Depending on the
  event-widget pair, the APPLY statement may or may not perform the default system
  action.

  Regardless of whether there is a default system action associated with an
  event-widget pair, you can write a trigger for the pair. The APPLY statement executes a
  trigger associated with an event-widget pair. If the event-widget pair has a default
  system action, that action occurs before or after the trigger executes, depending on the
  event. For more information on default system actions and events, see the next note and
  the Handle-based Object Events Reference.
 When, in a graphical interface, you APPLY an event to a widget,
  you cannot easily invoke the widget animation code that runs when
  the user interacts with the widget physically. For example, if you
  APPLY a "choose" event to a button widget, you cannot easily make
  the image of the button move down and up, as occurs when the user
  clicks on the button. The difficulty exists because the AVM does
  not provide access to the widget animation code, which resides in
  the windowing system. When the user clicks on the button, the windowing
  system detects the event, invokes the button animation code, perhaps
  performs other tasks, and passes the event to the AVM, which invokes
  the trigger code associated with the event. When you APPLY a "choose"
  event to the button, the AVM merely invokes the trigger code associated
  with the event. In neither case does the AVM access, or provide
  access to, the button animation code.

  One widget that does not
  have this difficulty is the fill-in. When you APPLY a character-string
  event to a fill-in, the character string appears in the image of
  the fill-in. The AVM accomplishes this by placing a copy of the
  character string into a buffer that maps to the same portion of
  the screen as the image of the fill-in.
 The APPLY statement serves as an important communications mechanism
  between procedures in an application. By defining triggers for events
  in a procedure, you can encapsulate functionality in the procedure. The
  APPLY statement allows you to access that encapsulated functionality from
  another procedure through a simple event interface.
 The APPLY statement is double-byte enabled. A character-string value
  specified for the event argument can contain double-byte
  characters.
 If a procedure calls another procedure from within an EDITING phrase
  and the called procedure uses the APPLY statement, the effect is the
  same as if the APPLY statement occurred directly within the EDITING
  phrase.
 If you are using APPLY in an EDITING phrase and expression is
  a key that causes a GO action (GO,
  or any key in a list used with the GO-ON option), the AVM does not
  immediately exit the EDITING phrase but instead processes all the
  remaining statements in the phrase. If RETRY, NEXT, UNDO RETRY,
  or UNDO NEXT is executed before the end of the phrase, the AVM ignores
  the GO and continues processing the EDITING phrase.
 APPLY -2 is the same as APPLY ENDKEY.
 For SpeedScript, you can apply an event to a procedure only.
• You cannot use the APPLY statement to apply (publish or send) an event
  on behalf of a.NET object..NET provides its own mechanisms for publishing events. In
  some cases, this might include a method for publishing a given event on behalf of the
  object. For more information, see the.NET documentation.

See also

Developer events, ON statement, Widget phrase




AT phrase

The AT phrase of the Format phrase allows explicit positioning
of frame objects, either by row and column or by pixels. The AT phrase
of the Frame phrase allows explicit positioning of frames with windows or
parent frames.

Syntax

n: The column, measured in character units. This option is not supported
    for the Frame phrase. You cannot use the alignment options with
    this syntax. If you use this option, the AVM chooses the row based
    on the previous widget and form item layout of the frame. For information
    on form items, see the DEFINE FRAME statement or FORM statement.

COLUMN column: The column, measured in character units.

COLUMN-OF reference-point: Indicates the column position of the field relative to another field-level widget
    previously defined in the frame. This option is not supported for the Frame
    phrase. This is the syntax for reference-point:

    In this syntax, widget is a reference to a field-level
    widget previously defined in the frame, and offset is a positive
    decimal value. For example, if widget is positioned at COLUMN 10,
    then COLUMN-OF widget + 2.5 positions the field at column 12.5.

X x: The X pixel coordinate.

X-OF reference-point: Indicates the X co-ordinate of the field relative to another
    field-level widget previously defined in the frame. This option
    is not supported for the Frame phrase. The co-ordinate is
    expressed as the co-ordinate of a widget previously defined in the
    frame, plus or minus an offset. The offset must be either a constant
    or preprocessor constant and must be a positive integer.

ROW row: The row, measured in character units.

ROW-OF reference-point: Indicates the row of the field relative to another field-level
    widget previously defined in the frame. This option is not supported
    for the Frame phrase. The row is expressed as the row of a widget
    previously defined in the frame, plus or minus an offset. The offset
    must be either a constant or preprocessor constant and must be a
    positive decimal value.

Y y: The Y pixel coordinate.

Y-OF reference-point: Indicates the Y co-ordinate of the field relative to another
    field-level widget previously defined in the frame. This option
    is not supported for the Frame phrase. The co-ordinate is
    expressed as the co-ordinate of a widget previously defined in the
    frame, plus or minus an offset. The offset must be either a constant
    or preprocessor constant and must be a positive integer.

COLON-ALIGNED | LEFT-ALIGNED | RIGHT-ALIGNED: Specifies whether to align the left edge of the field, right
    edge of the field, or the colon of the field label, with the specified
    position. This option can only be used in combination with the ROW
    and COLUMN options. This option is not supported for the
    Frame phrase.

    Note: For r-code that is compiled with -nocolon in
    effect, the COLON-ALIGNED option will align on the last character
    of the field label. See the Startup Command
    and Parameter Reference for more information on -nocolon.

Examples

The
following example uses the AT phrase to position fields within a frame.

r-at.p

The following example uses relative positioning
to position fields relative to the CustNum field.

r-at1.p

Notes

 The
  AT phrase does not left justify the data. It simply specifies the
  position of the data area. If the data is right justified it may
  appear to be farther right than you expect.
 If you position a child frame completely outside the virtual
  area of its parent frame, the AVM raises ERROR at run time when
  the frame is realized.
• For SpeedScript, you can position objects by row or column,
  not by pixels.

See also

DEFINE FRAME statement, FORM statement, Frame phrase




BELL statement

Causes the terminal to make a beep sound.

Note: Does not apply to SpeedScript programming.

Syntax

Example

The
following procedure dynamically determines the output file to use
for a report that lists all customer records. The SET statement
gets the name of a file from the user. The SEARCH function returns
an unqualified file name if that file already exists in your working
directory. If the file exists in your working directory, it displays
messages, undoes the work done in the DO block, and lets the user
enter another file name. (The procedure determines whether the file
is in your working directory. If SEARCH returns a directory other
than your current working directory, you receive no messages and
it does not undo your work.) After you type a file name that does
not already exist, the OUTPUT TO statement directs the output of
the procedure to that file.

r-bell.p

Note

If the
terminal is not the current output device, BELL has no effect.




BOX function

(.NET)

Returns an object reference to a.NET System.Object that
contains (boxes) a.NET mapping of an ABL value.
At run time, this mapping depends on the kind of ABL value passed
to the function. If you pass an ABL primitive value, the function
returns a corresponding.NET mapped object type. If you pass
an ABL array of.NET-compatible elements, the function returns
a corresponding.NET array object type.

Syntax

ABL-expression: Specifies an expression with a value in one of the following.NET-compatible ABL data
    types:

     CHARACTER
     DATE
     DATETIME
     DATETIME-TZ
     DECIMAL
     INT64
     INTEGER
     LOGICAL
     LONGCHAR
     A.NET-compatible ABL array

    A.NET-compatible ABL array is an ABL array of one of the listed ABL primitive
    types or an ABL array of any supported.NET object type (a.NET object type not mapped
    as specified in Table 4).

AS-data-type-expression: If ABL-expression is an ABL primitive type, this is a character
    expression equal to a keyword (AS data type) that matches the explicit.NET
    mapped data type into which you want to box the specified
    ABL-expression. If ABL-expression is an ABL
    primitive array, the character expression is an AS data type that specifies the explicit.NET mapped data type that the elements of the array should be converted to in the
    resulting.NET array object. This AS data type must correspond to one of the.NET types
    that maps appropriately to the ABL primitive type (or array element type) of
    ABL-expression (see Table 5).

    If you do not specify AS-data-type-expression and
    ABL-expression is an ABL primitive (or primitive array), ABL
    boxes ABL-expression using the default matching.NET type that
    corresponds to the ABL primitive type (or array element type) of
    ABL-expression.

    This option has no meaning when
    ABL-expression is an ABL array of a supported.NET object
    type.

Example

The following code creates a.NET DataTable with a single DataRow containing two
columns. It then adds data to the row for the two columns. The Item indexed property used to access the columns has the data type System.Object. So, to add data to each column, you might have to
use the BOX function to box the specified ABL value into an appropriate
System.Object instance for the column. For example:

Notes

 For many direct assignments of a System.Object to an ABL primitive value or.NET-compatible ABL array, use of
  the BOX function is optional, because ABL automatically boxes the
  assigned ABL value into its default matching.NET object type. However, one such
  assignment for which you must use the BOX function is when you want to
  box an ABL primitive value (or primitive array) as a valid.NET mapped data type (or array
  of mapped types) other than the default match, for example, when boxing an ABL INTEGER (or
  INTEGER EXTENT) as a.NET System.Byte (or "System.Byte[]").
 If you pass a compatible ABL value or array to an INPUT parameter of a.NET method, ABL automatically boxes the ABL value into the
  matching.NET System.Object or array object. For an ABL
  primitive (or primitive array) value, this automatic boxing also allows you to explicitly
  specify the.NET data type mapping if you use the AS data type option on the ABL argument
  that you pass to the INPUT parameter (see the Parameter passing syntax reference entry). This automatic boxing
  does not occur for an ABL method, procedure, or user-defined
  function passing the same parameters. In this case, you can do an initial direct
  assignment or use the BOX function to explicitly do the necessary
  conversion.

See also

Data types, UNBOX function




CAN-SET function

Returns a logical value indicating whether
you can set a specified attribute for a specified widget.

Syntax

handle: An expression that evaluates to a handle. The handle must refer
    to a valid widget.

attribute-name: An expression that evaluates to a character-string value. The contents of the string
    must be an attribute name. For more information on attributes, see the Handle Attributes and Methods Reference.

Notes

 For
  a field-level widget, the CAN-SET function always returns TRUE for
  the FRAME attribute; however, you can set the frame attribute only
  if the widget is dynamic. Therefore, before setting the FRAME attribute
  for a widget, you can test that the operation is valid with a statement similar
  to the following:

 For SpeedScript, use with buffer-field, buffer-object, buffer,
  and query-object handles.

See also

CAN-QUERY function, LIST-QUERY-ATTRS function, LIST-SET-ATTRS function




CLEAR statement

Clears the data for all fill-in fields in a
frame. It also clears the colors for all widgets in a frame, except
for enabled fill-ins.

Note: Does not apply to SpeedScript
programming.

Syntax

FRAME frame: Represents the name of the frame containing the fill-in fields
    you want to clear. If you do not name a frame, CLEAR clears the
    default frame for the block containing the CLEAR statement.

ALL: Clears all occurrences and resets the current display position
    to the top of the frame for a down frame (a frame used to display
    several occurrences of the fields in the frame).

NO-PAUSE: Does not pause before clearing the frame.

Example

The r-clear.p procedure
displays the ABL data types and their corresponding default formats.
The procedure prompts you to enter values so you can see how ABL
formats those values. If you answer YES, the AVM clears the values
currently displayed so that you can enter new values.

r-clear.p

Notes

 The
  CLEAR statement only clears fill-in fields. GUI widgets such as
  editors or radio-sets are not affected.
 The AVM automatically clears a single (1 down) frame whenever
  its block is iterated, and automatically clears a multi-frame (down
  frame) whenever it is full and its block is iterated.
 When clearing colors for a field-level widget in a frame, the
  CLEAR FRAME statement honors all widget attribute and option settings
  that specify how the widget inherits foreground or background colors
  from its containing frame.
 To clear the data from a single fill-in without clearing its
  colors, use the CLEAR() method (FILL-IN Widget).




COLOR phrase

Specifies a video attribute or color. The COLOR phrase is superseded by the
FGCOLOR and BGCOLOR options in graphical user interfaces and by the PFCOLOR and DCOLOR
options in character interfaces. The COLOR phrase is supported only for backward
compatibility with Progress Version 7 or earlier.

Note: Does not apply to
SpeedScript programming.

Syntax

NORMAL, INPUT, MESSAGES: The three standard colors ABL uses for screen displays. ABL
    uses NORMAL to display fields, INPUT to display input fields, and MESSAGES
    to display items in the message area.

    Following are the NORMAL
    defaults:

     Windows — On a color monitor, the default
      colors are a blue background and a white foreground. On a monochrome
      monitor, the default colors are a standard background and foreground,
      depending on the monitor.
     UNIX — The default colors are the normal display mode
      of your terminal.

    Following are the INPUT defaults:

     Windows — On a color monitor, the default colors are a
      light gray background and a blue foreground. On a monochrome monitor,
      the default underlines fields that require input.
     UNIX — The default colors depend on the type of terminal and
      how INPUT is defined in the protermcap file, but it is usually underlining.

    Following
    are the MESSAGES defaults:

     Windows — On a color
      monitor, the defaults are the same as for INPUT. On a monochrome
      monitor, the default is reverse video.
     UNIX — The defaults depend on the type of terminal and how
      MESSAGES is defined in the protermcap file, but it is usually reverse video.
      (The protermcap file supplied with ABL supplies default attributes for
      NORMAL, INPUT, and MESSAGES for all defined terminals.)

protermcap-attribute: You use the protermcap-attribute option only if
    you are using UNIX. This is the name assigned to the attribute in
    the protermcap file (for example, RED, BLINK,
    etc.). See Manage ABL Applications for
    a description of the protermcap file.

dos-hex-attribute: A hex string with a value of 00 through FF.

[ BLINK- ][ BRIGHT- ][ fgnd-color ][ bgnd-color ]: Names specific colors you want to use for the screen foreground
    and background. You use this option only if you are using Windows,
    and usually only if you use a color monitor. The following table
    lists the colors you can use for fgnd-color and bgnd-color.

    Table 1. Windows colors

    If fgnd-color is omitted,
    then the system uses the foreground corresponding to NORMAL. If bgnd-color is
    omitted, then the system uses the background corresponding to NORMAL.
    If NORMAL, INPUT, or MESSAGES is specified for fgnd-color or bgnd-color, then
    the system uses the foreground or background color of the specified standard
    color.

[ BLINK- ][ RVV- ][ UNDERLINE- ][ BRIGHT- ][ fgnd-color ]: Names specific attributes you want to use for the screen display.
    Use this option only if you are using Windows, and usually only
    if you use a monochrome monitor. Normally, you would never specify fgnd-color.

VALUE (expression): An expression with a value that results in one of the options
    in the COLOR phrase.

Example

The
following procedure displays a random number of asterisks, in a random
color, column, and row in 10 different occurrences. The COLOR statement
displays the asterisks in one of the three colors stored in the
elements of the hilite array. The COLOR phrase in this example is
VALUE (hilite[ RANDOM(1,3) ]. The DISPLAY statement uses the
color determined in the COLOR statement to display a random number
of asterisks.

r-colphr.p

Notes

 For
  an application to use this COLOR phrase, it must use the default
  color table in the installed environment.
 The system ignores the color phrase entry for overlay frames
  on spacetaking terminals.
• For more information on the protermcap file, see
  Manage ABL Applications.

See also

COLOR statement




COLOR statement

Indicates the video attribute or color for normal display or for data entry.

Note: Does not apply to SpeedScript programming.

Syntax

DISPLAY: Indicates that you want to use a specific color when the system displays a field.

PROMPT: Indicates that you want to use a specific color when the system prompts a user for
    input by an INSERT, PROMPT-FOR, SET, or UPDATE statement.

color-phrase: Specifies a video attribute or color. Following is the syntax for
    color-phrase:

    For more information on color-phrase, see the COLOR phrase reference entry. ABL ignores the
    color-phrase entry for overlay frames on spacetaking
    terminals.

field: The name of the field or fields for which you want to override the default colors.

frame-phrase: Specifies the overall layout and processing properties of a frame. For more
    information see the Frame phrase reference
    entry.

Example

This procedure highlights the item number and on-hand fields for items with an on-hand
value less than 50. The variable hilite holds the video attribute (color) for highlighting.
In this case, the system uses whatever attribute is used for the message area (such as
reverse video, bright, or a color).

r-color.p

Notes

 When the output destination is not the terminal, ABL disregards the COLOR
  statement.
 The COLOR statement does not automatically display a frame whose field's color attribute
  is changing.
 Use one of these statements to reset a field to the ABL default colors:

  Or:

 Certain terminals, such as the WYSE 75, are non-spacetaking for some attributes and
  spacetaking for others.
• On UNIX, if you specify a color or video attribute that is not defined for the terminal,
  the AVM uses normal display instead.

See also

COLOR phrase, DISPLAY statement, Frame phrase




COMBO-BOX phrase

Describes a combo-box widget. A combo-box represents
a field or variable, and consists of a field value and an associated drop-down
list of possible values.

Note: Does not apply to
SpeedScript programming.

Syntax

Use the following syntax to specify a combo-box
widget for displaying values in a browse column:

LIST-ITEMS item-list: Specifies that the items appear in the drop-down list. item-list represents
    a comma-separated list of valid values for the field or variable.

LIST-ITEM-PAIRS item-pair-list: Specifies a list of label-value pairs. Each pair represents
    the label and value of a field or variable. When the drop-down list
    appears, it displays each pair's label. Then, if the user selects
    a label, the AVM assigns the corresponding value to the field or
    variable. The syntax for item-pair-list is as
    follows:

    label: A character string representing the label of the field or variable.

    value: A value that the AVM assigns to the field or variable if the
        user selects the corresponding label.

INNER-LINES lines: Specifies the number of lines visible in the drop-down list
    for a DROP-DOWN or DROP-DOWN-LIST combo-box widget. The value for lines must
    be 3 or greater. If the number of lines you specify is less than
    the number of items in the drop-down list, the list is scrollable.

    The
    INNER-LINES option in a SIMPLE combo-box definition is ignored.

size-phrase: Specifies the outside dimensions (width and height) of the combo-box
    widget and its drop-down list using the SIZE phrase. You must specify
    a SIZE phrase in the definition of a SIMPLE or DROP-DOWN combo-box
    widget. The syntax for the SIZE phrase is as follows:

    For more information, see the SIZE phrase reference
    entry.

    Note: The height value
    is ignored for DROP-DOWN and DROP-DOWN-LIST combo-box widgets. The
    height is always set to the height of a fill-in for the current
    font.

    This option is invalid for combo-box browse columns.
    The AVM sets the ROW-HEIGHT-CHARS and ROW-HEIGHT-PIXELS attributes
    for a browse to the height of the combo-box, by default. You can
    override these settings after the browse is created.

SORT: Specifies that list items be sorted prior to display.

TOOLTIP tooltip: Allows you to define a help text message for a text field or
    text variable. The AVM automatically displays this text when the
    user pauses the mouse button over a text field or text variable
    for which a tooltip is defined.

    You can add or change the TOOLTIP
    option at any time. If TOOLTIP is set to "" or the Unknown value (?),
    then the tooltip is removed. No tooltip is the default. The TOOLTIP
    option is supported in Windows only.

    This option is invalid
    for combo-box browse columns.

SIMPLE: Specifies a combo-box widget with a read/write edit control
    and a list that is always visible. This option is supported in graphical
    interfaces only, and only in Windows. If you specify a SIMPLE combo-box
    widget in a character interface, the AVM treats it as a DROP-DOWN-LIST combo-box
    widget.

    This option is invalid for combo-box browse columns.

DROP-DOWN: Specifies a combo-box widget with a read/write edit control
    and a drop-down list that appears when you click the drop-down button.
    This option is supported in graphical interfaces only, and only
    in Windows. If you specify a DROP-DOWN combo-box widget in a character
    interface, the AVM treats it as a DROP-DOWN-LIST combo-box widget.

    For
    combo-box browse columns, a drop-down button appears only when an
    editable combo-box column has focus. You can use a DROP-DOWN combo-box
    only for a CHARACTER column. If the current value of the combo-box
    is not a valid value in the combo-box's item list, the AVM still
    displays the value in the combo-box's edit control.

DROP-DOWN-LIST: Specifies a combo-box widget with a read-only edit control and
    a drop-down list that appears when you click the drop-down button.
    This is the default.

    For combo-box browse columns, a drop-down
    button appears only when an editable combo-box column has focus.
    You can use a DROP-DOWN-LIST combo-box for a CHARACTER, DECIMAL, INTEGER,
    INT64, DATE, or LOGICAL column. If the current value of the combo-box
    is not a valid value, the AVM does not display the value in the
    combo-box's edit control when the combo-box receives focus.

MAX-CHARS characters: The maximum number of characters the edit control can hold.
    The characters parameter must be a positive integer constant.
    If characters is zero or the Unknown value (?),
    MAX-CHARS is set to 255 characters by default.

    Use MAX-CHARS with
    only SIMPLE and DROP-DOWN combo-boxes. It is ignored for DROP-DOWN-LIST
    combo-boxes. This option is supported in graphical interfaces only,
    and only in Windows.

AUTO-COMPLETION: Specifies that the edit control automatically complete keyboard input
    to the combo-box, based on a potential match, by searching through the
    items in the drop-down list. This option is supported in graphical interfaces
    only, and only in Windows.

UNIQUE-MATCH: Specifies that the edit control complete keyboard input to the combo-box
    based on a unique match. This option is supported in graphical interfaces
    only, and only in Windows.

Examples

The
first example, r-combo.p, views a date field
as a combo-box. When you run this procedure, you can choose a date
value from the drop-down list. When you choose a new value, the
VALUE-CHANGED trigger updates the value of out-string to an event
associated with the new date value. The example initializes the
drop-down list by building a comma-separated list of values and
then assigning the string to the LIST-ITEMS attribute of the combo-box.

r-combo.p

The following example, r-combo2.p,
builds a combo-box based on field values from a database. It defines
triggers that allow you to change the value of the combo-box without
displaying the drop-down list. They allow you to scroll through
the values using the CURSOR-DOWN and CURSOR-UP keys or to jump to a specific
value by typing its first letter.

r-combo2.p

Notes

 When
  the drop-down list appears, if it contains the value associated
  with the field or variable, that value is initially highlighted.
  Otherwise, no value in the drop-down list is initially highlighted.
 The LIST-ITEMS option of the COMBO-BOX phrase requires a list of
  items (possibly quoted, depending on the combo-box's data type),
  such as ("a", "b", "c"), whereas the LIST-ITEMS attribute of a combo-box requires
  a quoted list of items, such as ("a, b, c").

  Similarly, the LIST-ITEM-PAIRS
  option of the COMBO-BOX phrase requires a list of items (possibly
  quoted, depending on the combo-box's data type), such as ("a", 1,
  "b", 2, "c", 3), whereas the LIST-ITEM-PAIRS attribute of a combo-box
  requires a quoted list of items, such as ("a, 1, b, 2, c, 3").
 If you do not specify the LIST-ITEMS or LIST-ITEM-PAIRS option, the
  screen value of the variable or field becomes the null string ("
  "). To display or set values in the combo-box, you must first set
  the LIST-ITEMS or LIST-ITEM-PAIRS attribute to assign a drop-down
  list that specifies the available values.
 If you specify the SORT option for a COMBO-BOX, then any items you
  add with the ADD-FIRST, ADD-LAST, or INSERT methods are added in
  sorted order rather than the order you specify.
 Windows allows the user to transfer focus to the drop-down list
  by pressing ALT and one of the letters
  in the label. This is called a mnemonic.
 When you use the SIMPLE and DROP-DOWN options to define a character-field
  or character-variable combo-box widget, the FORMAT string for the
  field or variable is ignored.
• Items in a combo-box are case insensitive.

See also

Format phrase, SIZE phrase, VIEW-AS phrase




CREATE automation object statement

(Windows only)

Creates (instantiates) an ActiveX Automation object based on a specified Automation Server connection.

Syntax

expression1: A character-string expression that evaluates to 1) a unique
    name of a valid Automation object stored in the system registry
    or 2) the null string ("").

COM-hdl-var: A COM-HANDLE variable that receives the COM handle to the instantiated
    Automation object.

[CONNECT [ TO expression2] ]: Specifies the connection option, together with expression1.
    The behavior of each connection option depends on the execution
    status of the Automation Server. The following table illustrates
    this behavior.

    Table 1. Automation
    object connection options

NO-ERROR: The NO-ERROR option is used to prevent the
    statement from raising ERROR and displaying error messages.

Example

The following procedure demonstrates several Automation object instantiations using the
four basic connection options. It tries all of the options with the Microsoft® Excel
Automation Server. Note that not all Automation Servers support all options. For example in
Office 95, there is no Automation object for PowerPoint presentations. Thus, the file
connection option (Option 3 in Table 1) does not work.

r-crea.p

Notes

 You must ensure that any third-party Automation objects you want to
  instantiate are installed and correctly listed in the registry. For information on what
  Automation objects you can instantiate, see the documentation for the third-party product.
  Generally, these are the same Automation objects instantiated by the Visual Basic
  CreateObject and GetObject functions. You might also be able to view these Automation
  objects using the OpenEdge COM Object Viewer tool. For more information, see OpenEdge Programming Interfaces.
 The instantiation of an Automation object depends on the implementation
  of the Automation Server itself. Any Server registered for multiple use
  (REGCLS\MULTIPLE\USE flag) launches a single instance of the Server
  that handles multiple Automation object instantiation requests. Any
  Server registered single use (REGCLS\SINGLE\USE flag) launches a new
  instance of the Server for each instantiated Automation object.
 The four connection options in Table 1 compare to the following Visual Basic function calls:
• Option 1 — CreateObject (class) or GetObject ("",
    class)
• Option 2 — GetObject (, class)
• Option 3 — GetObject (pathname,
    class)
• Option 4 — GetObject (pathname)
 Once you create or connect to an Automation object, you can
  reference its properties and methods.

See also

NO-ERROR option, RELEASE OBJECT statement




CREATE BROWSE statement

(Graphical interfaces only)

Creates a dynamic read-only browse widget or a dynamic updatable browse widget. Add browse
columns to the widget with the ADD-LIKE-COLUMN, ADD-COLUMNS-FROM, and ADD-CALC-COLUMN
methods. Specify the query for the widget with the QUERY attribute.

The dynamic updatable browse can only be a NO-ASSIGN browse—you must make all data
assignments to the database.

Note: Does
not apply to SpeedScript programming.

Syntax

handle: A variable of type HANDLE that the AVM sets for the new widget.

IN WIDGET-POOL widget-pool-name: Specifies the widget pool in which the object is created. If
    you do not specify a widget pool, the object is created in the current
    default widget pool. The browse will go away when its widget pool
    goes away, or when you delete it with the DELETE OBJECT statement.

ASSIGN { attribute = expression }...: Assigns specified values to attributes of the object. The attribute parameter
    must be the name of a valid attribute for the object and expression must
    evaluate to a valid value for that attribute.

trigger-phrase: A trigger phrase associated with the object. For more information, see
    the Trigger phrase reference entry.

Example

The
following example creates a dynamic browse and adds columns to it:

r-dynbrws.p

Notes

 If
  the browse's height is set using the DOWN attribute and a browse
  column is added, the browse's height may change to ensure that the
  number of DOWN is preserved. This may be due to the addition of
  the horizontal scrollbar or the growth of the column header.
 If the browse's height is set using the HEIGHT-CHARS or HEIGHT-PIXELS
  attributes, or through direct manipulation, and a browse column
  is added, the DOWN attribute may change to ensure that the specified
  height is preserved. This may be due to the addition of the horizontal
  scrollbar or the growth of the column header.
 The DISPLAY... WITH BROWSE browse-name statement
  cannot be used with a dynamic browse. Instead, the user must set
  the SCREEN-VALUE attributes.
 A dynamic browse's validation expression is restricted. It may
  not contain a CAN-FIND function. To reference the field, the FRAME-VALUE
  function must be used. The CAN-FIND function will still work for
  a static browse column.
 If a buffer-field is associated with a dynamic browse column,
  set the buffer-field's VALIDATE-EXPRESSION attribute before the
  dynamic browse column is added to the browse (via the ADD-LIKE-COLUMN() method).
  The validation expression is compiled at this time. If the VALIDATE-EXPRESSION
  attribute is changed later, it is ignored.
 You can use the ASSIGN option to assign a widget ID value to
  the WIDGET-ID attribute for
  this object. If you have enabled application-defined widget IDs
  in your ABL GUI application, by specifying the Use Widget ID (-usewidgetid)
  startup parameter, then the AVM uses this widget ID when it creates
  the widget at run time, instead of using the widget ID it normally
  generates by default. If you have not enabled application-defined
  widget IDs, then the AVM ignores this option setting at run time.

  For
  more information about the WIDGET-ID attribute, see its reference
  entry in the Handle Attributes and Methods Reference. For more information about the Use Widget
  ID (-usewidgetid) startup parameter, see Startup Command and Parameter Reference.

See also

ADD-CALC-COLUMN() method, ADD-COLUMNS-FROM() method, ADD-LIKE-COLUMN() method, CREATE QUERY statement, CREATE widget statement, DEFINE BROWSE statement, DEFINE QUERY statement, GET-BROWSE-COLUMN() method, QUERY attribute




CREATE WIDGET-POOL statement

Creates a named or unnamed widget pool in which to contain most dynamic widgets and other handle-based objects created during an ABL session.

Note: Does not apply to SpeedScript programming.

Syntax

pool-name: A character-string expression that specifies the name for a named
    widget pool you are creating. Widget pool names are not case
    sensitive.

    If you omit this option, an unnamed widget pool is
    created and scoped to the procedure or class-based method. That
    is, a routine-scoped unnamed widget pool and its contents remain
    in effect as long as the procedure or method is on the call stack, and
    the pool and its contents are automatically deleted when the procedure
    or method is removed from the call stack.

PERSISTENT: Specifies that the named widget pool is persistent. This means that
    the pool and any widgets in it remain allocated after the current procedure or method
    terminates. If you do not specify this option, the pool and its contents are
    automatically deleted when procedure or method execution ends.

    Note: Pool-name is required when
    creating a widget pool with the PERSISTENT option.

NO-ERROR: The NO-ERROR option is used to prevent the
    statement from raising ERROR and displaying error messages.

Example

The
following example lets you create a series of dynamic buttons. All
the buttons are created within a named widget pool. Because the
widget pool is created within a trigger, it is defined as persistent
so that it remains allocated after the trigger ends. You can at
any time choose to delete the entire widget pool and start over.

r-widpl.p

Notes

 The
  AVM automatically creates a persistent unnamed widget pool (session
  widget pool) at the start of each session. Most applications
  use only this session widget pool.
 In general, unnamed widget pools cannot persist beyond the scope
  of the procedure or method in which they are created, except the
  session widget pool, which is created by the AVM.
 If you create an unnamed widget pool in the main block of a
  persistent procedure or you instantiate a class where the USE-WIDGET-POOL option
  is defined somewhere in its hierarchy, the AVM creates an object-persistent
  unnamed widget pool that persists for the lifetime of the
  persistent procedure or class-based object, respectively. This object-persistent
  widget pool then becomes the default widget pool for any internal
  procedure of the persistent procedure or any method of the instantiated
  class that is invoked from outside the respective persistent procedure
  or instantiated class. However, any routine-scoped unnamed widget
  pool created by these internal procedures or methods supersedes this
  object-persistent widget pool. For more information on the USE-WIDGET-POOL
  option, see the CLASS statement reference
  entry.
 When you create an unnamed widget pool, it automatically becomes the
  default widget pool. Each subsequent dynamically created widget
  is placed in this unnamed pool unless you specifically assign it
  to another pool. This unnamed pool remains the default widget pool
  until it is deleted or you create another unnamed widget pool. Thus,
  if you create no unnamed widget pools, all dynamically created widgets
  go into the session widget pool, unless assigned to another pool.
  If you create any additional unnamed widget pools, either object-persistent
  or routine-scoped, the most locally scoped and recently created
  unnamed widget pool becomes the default widget pool for all subsequently
  created dynamic widgets.
 Persistent widget pools remain allocated until they are explicitly deleted
  (with the DELETE WIDGET-POOL statement) or until the end of the
  ABL session that created them.
 All named widget pools are globally scoped. While a named widget pool
  is allocated, any procedure within the same process can access that widget
  pool. The name of a widget pool must be unique among all widget pools
  for the process. If you try to create a widget pool with the same
  name as an existing pool, the AVM raises the ERROR condition.
 If a recursive procedure or method creates an unnamed widget
  pool, each iteration of that procedure or method creates a separate
  pool. If a recursive routine creates a named widget pool, you must
  ensure that only one iteration creates the pool (where all iterations
  can share it) or use a different name in each iteration (where each
  creates and uses its own pool).
 You might want to create a new, unnamed widget pool just before invoking a new procedure
  or method and then delete that pool when the procedure or method returns. This ensures
  that any dynamic widgets created by that procedure or method in the default pool are
  deleted immediately. For example:

  Similarly, you might want to store all dynamic widgets for a subsystem within a
  specific named pool. For example:

  In this example, the procedure ord-ent.p must reference the oe-pool for each
  dynamic widget it creates.

See also

CLASS statement, CREATE widget statement, DELETE WIDGET-POOL statement, NO-ERROR option




CREATE widget statement

Creates a dynamic object, such as a widget
object.

Note: Does not apply to SpeedScript programming.

Syntax

VALUE (string-expression): An expression of type CHARACTER that evaluates to the type of object
    you want to create (for example, BUTTON) with any combination of
    uppercase and lowercase characters.

handle: A variable of type HANDLE that the AVM sets for the new widget.

IN WIDGET-POOL pool-name: Specifies the widget pool in which the object is created. If
    you do not specify a widget pool, the object is created in the current
    default widget pool.

ASSIGN {attribute = expression}...: Assigns specified values to attributes of the object. The attribute parameter
    must be the name of a valid attribute for the object and expression must
    evaluate to a valid value for that attribute.

trigger-phrase: A trigger phrase associated with the object. For more information, see
    the Trigger phrase reference entry.

Example

This
procedure creates a dynamic button that displays a list of customer names:

r-dynbut.p

Notes

 Attribute
  assignments you specify in the CREATE widget statement are processed
  in the order they appear. In some cases you must supply the attributes
  in proper order. For example, you cannot set the SENSITIVE or VISIBLE
  attributes for a field-level widget until you have set its FRAME
  attribute.
 If you are setting the FORMAT attribute and specifying an initial SCREEN-VALUE
  for the widget, assign the FORMAT before the SCREEN-VALUE. Otherwise,
  the default format is applied to the SCREEN-VALUE which might cause
  truncation or other formatting errors.
 You can use the ASSIGN option to assign a widget ID value to
  the WIDGET-ID attribute for
  this object. If you have enabled application-defined widget IDs
  in your ABL GUI application, by specifying the Use Widget ID (-usewidgetid)
  startup parameter, then the AVM uses this widget ID when it creates
  the widget at run time, instead of using the widget ID it normally
  generates by default. If you have not enabled application-defined
  widget IDs, then the AVM ignores this option setting at run time.

  For
  more information about the WIDGET-ID attribute, see its reference
  entry in the Handle Attributes and Methods Reference. For more information about the Use Widget
  ID (-usewidgetid) startup parameter, see Startup Command and Parameter Reference.
 If you create a frame to use as a DDE frame, you must realize the frame
  (set its VISIBLE attribute to TRUE) before using it as a conversation end-point. If you
  want the DDE frame to remain invisible during its use in a DDE conversation, set its
  HIDDEN attribute to TRUE after realizing the frame. For information on DDE frames, see
  OpenEdge Programming Interfaces.

See also

CREATE QUERY statement, CREATE WIDGET-POOL statement, DEFINE FRAME statement, DELETE WIDGET statement, DELETE WIDGET-POOL statement, Trigger phrase




DEFINE BROWSE statement

Defines and creates either a read-only or updateable browse
widget that is created at compile time for use in one or more procedures, or
within a single class.

Note: Does not apply to
SpeedScript programming.

Syntax

NEW SHARED BROWSE browse-name: Defines and identifies a browse widget that can be used by other procedures.
    When the procedure containing this statement ends, the browse is
    no longer available.

SHARED BROWSE browse-name: Defines and identifies a browse that was created in another
    procedure with the DEFINE NEW SHARED BROWSE statement.

[ PRIVATE ] BROWSE browse-name: Defines and identifies a browse widget as a class-scoped object. A class-scoped
    handle-based object is not a member of a class, but provides a resource that is
    privately available to the class definition similar to a non-shared data element in a
    procedure definition. The option to specify the PRIVATE access mode is provided for
    readability. You cannot specify PRIVATE when defining a browse widget as a data element
    in a method or procedure.

    Note: This option is applicable only when defining
    a class-scoped browse widget in a class definition (.cls)
    file.

BROWSE browse-name: Defines and identifies a browse widget whose query you can access only
    within the current procedure, class, or method of a class.

QUERY query-name: The name of the query to browse. You must have previously defined or
    opened the query.

[ SHARE-LOCK | EXCLUSIVE-LOCK | NO-LOCK ]: Specifies the locking mode for records retrieved by the browse widget.
    The default locking mode is NO-LOCK. To control locking during preselection
    for a query associated with a browse widget, use the SHARE-LOCK,
    EXCLUSIVE-LOCK, or NO-LOCK option in the OPEN QUERY statement that
    opens the query.

NO-WAIT: Specifies not to wait for a record that is currently locked
    by another process. Instead, the record in conflict will be made
    available in NO-LOCK mode and the LOCKED function for that record
    will return TRUE.

DISPLAY column-list: Specifies the column items to display in the browse. Note that the
    column-list cannot contain widgets other than fill-ins (default),
    combo-boxes, and toggle-boxes, and the column-list cannot contain
    SKIP options.

    expression: A field name, variable, constant, or expression to display in each iteration of
        the browse frame.

    column-format-phrase: Specifies the format for a value displayed in the browse. The
        column-format-phrase is a subset of the Format phrase.

        WIDTH n: Specify a width for the browse column. n represents a
            multiplier of the average character width of the column font. Specifying a
            width smaller than the format string creates a scrolling browse cell, if the
            column is updateable.

            For more information on FORMAT strings and label
            options, see the Format phrase reference entry. The
            column and label color and font options work like those specified in the
            browse-options-phrase. If color or fonts are
            specified with this phrase, they only affect the specific column and
            override similar options specified in the
            browse-options-phrase.

    @base-field: The base-field must be the name of a field or variable; it
        cannot be an expression or constant.

        The AVM reserves enough space for the
        base-field to hold the longest format displayed there. All
        right-justified fields (numeric fields that do not use side labels) are right
        justified within the reserved area.

        To determine the format to use for
        displaying the expression at the base-field, the AVM looks at
        the following and uses the first format that applies:

         An explicit format used with the expression.
         If the expression is a character string constant, a format that accommodates
          that string.
         If the data type of the expression matches that of the
          base-field, the format of the
          base-field.
         The standard format of the expression as if it were displayed without a
          base-field.

    view-as-phrase: Specifies the type of widget to use for displaying values in the browse column.
        This is the view-as-phrase syntax, which is a subset of the
        VIEW-AS phrase:

        If you do not specify a view-as-phrase, the widget
        type for the browse column is FILL-IN, by default.

        Note: In a
        character interface, the browse column value is always displayed as a FILL-IN
        widget no matter what widget type you specify.

        For more information,
        see the VIEW-AS phrase
        reference entry.

DISPLAY record: Specifies the record you want to display. If you specify a record, all fields from the
    record are displayed unless you use the EXCEPT option to eliminate specific
    fields.

    See the Record phrase
    reference entry for more information.

EXCEPT field...: Specifies fields that are not displayed in the browse. You can use the EXCEPT option
    only if you specify a record name in the DISPLAY option.

browse-enable-phrase: Specifies which fields in the column-list are enabled for
    input.

    List each field or variable from the column-list that you
    want enabled. Specify ALL to specify every item in the column-list.
    Use the EXCEPT option to exclude specific items when you use the ALL option.

    For each field or variable, you can also specify custom help and validation, as
    shown in the next two entries.

    HELP string: Represents a character string that you want to display whenever the user enters the
        frame field for the field or variable. When the user leaves the frame field, the AVM
        removes the help string from the message area. You must enclose the string in quotation
        marks ("").

    VALIDATE (condition, msg-expression): Specifies an expression against which you want to validate the data entered in a
        browse cell. The condition is a Boolean expression (a constant, field
        name, variable name, or expression) whose value is TRUE or FALSE.

        When you use the
        VALIDATE option to validate a specific cell, any reference to that cell in
        condition is assumed to be the new input value. For example, in
        the browse-enable phrase below, the PromiseDate that is compared to
        the OrderDate is the new user input, not the existing data:

        To validate a new value against another new value, use the INPUT qualifier,
        as shown:

        If the value of condition is FALSE, use
        msg-expression to display a specific message. You must enclose
        msg-expression in quotation marks ("").

        The AVM processes
        validation criteria whenever the user attempts to leave the browse cell. If the cell
        value is not valid, the AVM displays msg-expression in the message
        area, causes the terminal to beep, and does not advance out of the browse
        cell.

        If the user tabs to a cell, makes no changes, and leaves the cell, the AVM
        does not process the validation criteria specified with the VALIDATE option until you
        press GO (F1). If the user
        presses ENDKEY or END-ERROR, or an error occurs, the AVM does not test the validation criteria
        specified with the VALIDATE option.

        If the input source for the procedure is a
        table, the AVM validates each input field (except those with a value of "-"). If the
        result of the validation is FALSE, msg-expression is displayed and
        the AVM treats the validation as an error.

        To suppress the Data Dictionary
        validation criteria for a cell, use this VALIDATE option:

    AUTO-RETURN: Indicates whether the AVM behaves as if the user pressed the RETURN key when the user enters the last allowable character in a browse cell of
        the specified browse column.

    DISABLE-AUTO-ZAP: Indicates whether the AVM should ignore the value of the browse column's AUTO-ZAP
        attribute and assume it is FALSE.

browse-options-phrase: Specifies options that affect the browse widget as a whole. The options affect both
    the layout and the function of the browse widget. Note that you cannot include
    aggregate-phrases (such as TOTAL, MIN, etc.) in this phrase. This is the syntax for
    browse-options-phrase:

    [ constant ] DOWN [ WIDTH width]: The constant value is the number of rows displayed in the
        browse and must be at least 2. You can optionally specify the width of the browse,
        where width is the width of the browse in character units.

        A
        browse-options-phrase must contain a DOWN option or a
        size-phrase.

    size-phrase: Specifies the outer size of the browse border. When this option is used instead
        of the DOWN option, the AVM determines the number of rows that can be displayed in
        the browse. Following is the syntax for size-phrase:

        For more information on size-phrase, see the SIZE phrase reference
        entry.

        A browse-options-phrase must contain a DOWN
        option (optionally with a WIDTH option) or a
        size-phrase.

    FGCOLOR expression: Specifies the foreground color for the browse in graphical environments, but not
        the label foreground color. The value of expression must be an
        integer value that specifies an entry in the color table. This option is ignored
        in character environments.

    BGCOLOR expression: Specifies the background color for the browse in graphical environments. The
        value of expression must be an integer value that specifies an
        entry in the color table. This option is ignored in character environments.

    DCOLOR expression: Specifies the display color for the browse in character environments. The value
        of expression must be an integer value that specifies an entry
        in the color table. This option is ignored in graphical environments.

    PFCOLOR expression: Specifies the prompt color for the browse in character environments. The value
        of expression must be an integer value that specifies an entry
        in the color table. This option is ignored in graphical environments.

    LABEL-FONT constant: Specifies the font of the browse labels.

    LABEL-DCOLOR expression: Specifies the display color for the browse labels in character environments. The
        value of expression must be an integer value that specifies an
        entry in the color table. This option is ignored in graphical environments.

    LABEL-FGCOLOR expression: Specifies the foreground color for the browse labels in graphical environments.
        The value of expression must be an integer value that specifies
        an entry in the color table. This option is ignored in character
        environments.

    LABEL-BGCOLOR expression: Specifies the background color for the browse labels in graphical environments.
        The value of expression must be an integer value that specifies
        an entry in the color table. This option is ignored in character
        environments.

    [ MULTIPLE | SINGLE ]: Specifies whether multiple rows can be selected from the browse or only a single
        row at one time. The default is SINGLE.

    [ SEPARATORS | NO-SEPARATORS ]: Specifies whether row and column separators are displayed within the browse. The
        default is NO-SEPARATORS.

    NO-ASSIGN: Disables automatic writes on new data in an updateable browse. If this option is
        not specified, data entered into an updateable browse is assigned on any action
        that results in a ROW-LEAVE event. This option is intended for use with
        user-defined triggers on the ROW-LEAVE event. Essentially, when this option is
        specified, you must make all data assignments by way of the updateable
        browse.

        In the above example, the code looks for a special case where automatic
        database writes are not desirable and prevents them. The body of the trigger
        handles other processing before proceeding to commit the changes. First the
        trigger refinds the current Customer record and then uses the CURRENT-CHANGED
        function to see if it has changed while the user was updating the browse cells.
        If it has not changed, the changes are committed. If it has changed, the trigger
        would handle that condition, too.

        Note that an ASSIGN statement with the
        INPUT BROWSE option can be mixed with other assignment types, as
        shown:

    NO-ROW-MARKERS: By default, an updateable browse displays row markers, which allow the user to
        select currently displayed rows in an updateable browse widget. This option
        prevents row markers from being displayed.

    NO-LABELS: Does not display labels above the columns of the browse.

    NO-BOX: Does not display a box around the browse. If you do not use this option, the AVM
        displays a box around the data you are displaying.

        If you are sending data to a
        device other than a terminal and you do not use this option, the AVM omits the
        sides and bottom line of the box and replaces the top line with blanks.

    FONT constant: Specifies the font of the browse. Labels also use this font, unless otherwise
        specified.

    title-phrase: Displays a title as part of the top line of the box around the browse. For
        example:

        The title-string is a constant, field name, variable
        name, or expression whose result is a character value. The expression
        is the value you want to display as a title. If title-string
        is a constant character string, it must be surrounded by quotes ("").
        The AVM automatically centers title-string in the top line of
        the browse box.

        You can use the DCOLOR option to specify the color of the
        title under a character user interface.

        You cannot specify the title color
        or font of a browse in a graphical interface.

    NO-VALIDATE: Tells the AVM to ignore the validations conditions in the schema for all fields
        in the browse.

        Since browses do not inherit the NO-VALIDATE option from a parent
        frame, if you want a browse to have this option, you must specify it
        explicitly.

    NO-SCROLLBAR-VERTICAL | SCROLLBAR-VERTICAL: Indicates whether the browse displays a vertical scrollbar. The default is to
        display the vertical scrollbar.

    ROW-HEIGHT-CHARS | ROW-HEIGHT-PIXELS row-height: An integer representing the browse's row height in either characters or
        pixels.

        This option applies to graphical interfaces only.

    FIT-LAST-COLUMN: Allows the browse to be displayed so that there is no empty space to the right
        and no horizontal scroll bar by potentially widening or shrinking the last browse
        column's width.

        This option applies to graphical interfaces only.

        When
        this option is specified, and the last browse column can be fully or partially
        displayed in the browse's viewport, then the last browse column's width is
        adjusted so that it fits within the viewport with no empty space to its right
        and no horizontal scroll bar.

        If the last browse column is fully
        contained in the viewport with empty space to its right, it grows so that its
        right edge is adjacent to the vertical scroll bar.

        If the last browse
        column extends outside the viewport, it shrinks so its right edge is adjacent to
        the vertical scroll bar and the horizontal scroll bar is not needed.

        The
        default value is FALSE.

        Note: The FIT-LAST-COLUMN option performs
        the same function as the EXPANDABLE option. Progress Software Corporation
        recommends that you use the FIT-LAST-COLUMN option instead of the EXPANDABLE
        option. This recommendation includes replacing EXPANDABLE with FIT-LAST-COLUMN
        in your current code.

    EXPANDABLE: If you set a browse's EXPANDABLE option to TRUE, the AVM extends the right-most
        browse column horizontally to the browse's right edge, if necessary, to cover any
        white space that might appear there — unless you explicitly set the width of the
        right-most browse column using the WIDTH-CHARS or WIDTH-PIXELS option. The
        expansion of the right-most browse column might occur anytime the browse or
        another browse column is resized.

        The right-most browse column expands only
        when there is no horizontal scroll bar. This is because when there is a
        horizontal scroll bar, no white space appears between the right edge of the
        right-most browse column and the right edge of the browse.

        Note: The EXPANDABLE option performs the same function as the FIT-LAST-COLUMN option.
        Progress Software Corporation recommends that you use the FIT-LAST-COLUMN option
        instead of the EXPANDABLE option. This recommendation includes replacing
        EXPANDABLE with FIT-LAST-COLUMN in your current code.

    NO-EMPTY-SPACE: Allows the browse to display with no empty space to the right and no horizontal
        scroll bar.

        You cannot specify both NO-EMPTY-SPACE and FIT-LAST-COLUMN for the
        DEFINE BROWSE statement. If you specify both, the compiler displays an error
        message. If you set either the NO-EMPTY-SPACE option or the DEFINE BROWSE option
        to TRUE and one of them is already TRUE, a warning message displays at run
        time.

    NO-AUTO-VALIDATE: Tells ABL to compile into the code all relevant validations it finds in the
        OpenEdge Data Dictionary, but to run the validations only when the code for a
        browse or a browse column specifically invokes the VALIDATE() method.

CONTEXT-HELP-ID expression: An integer value that specifies the identifier of the help topic for this browse in a
    help file specified at the session, window, or dialog box level using the
    CONTEXT-HELP-FILE attribute.

DROP-TARGET: Indicates whether the user can drop a file onto the object.

TOOLTIP tooltip: Allows you to define a help text message for a browse widget. The AVM automatically
    displays this text when the user pauses the mouse pointer over a browse widget for which
    a ToolTip is defined. You can add or change the TOOLTIP option at any time.

    If
    TOOLTIP is set to "" or the Unknown value (?), then the ToolTip is
    removed from the browse. No ToolTip is the default. ToolTips are supported in Windows
    only.

Examples

This
procedure sets up a read-only browse widget for the Customer table. The
browse displays the CustNum and Name fields. A separate frame, f2,
displays more information on the currently chosen Customer.

r-browse.p

The VALUE-CHANGED event occurs each time the
user selects a row within the browse widget. The associated database
record is automatically placed into the record buffer. The trigger
on the VALUE-CHANGED event displays that record in frame f2.

The
APPLY statement causes the first Customer record to display before the
user selects a record.

The second example sets up an updateable
browse that displays some fields from the Customer table. Select
a row marker to select a row. Select a cell to edit it. Select a
column label to initiate a search. (The trigger on ROW-LEAVE is only
necessary because the NO-ASSIGN option prevents automatic commitment
of the data when the user leaves a row.)

r-brows2.p

Notes

 You
  cannot define a SHARED or NEW SHARED browse widget in a persistent
  procedure. If you do, ABL raises ERROR on the RUN statement that
  creates the procedure.
 You cannot define a SHARED or NEW SHARED browse widget in a class
  definition (.cls) file. If you do, ABL generates a
  compilation error.
 The vertical scrollbar is displayed with the browse by default
  in Windows interfaces. It may be removed by setting the SCROLLBAR-VERTICAL
  attribute to FALSE or by specifying NO-SCROLLBAR-VERTICAL in the
  DEFINE BROWSE statement. If the horizontal scrollbar is needed,
  it is provided by default.
 The vertical scrollbar thumb size reflects the percentage of
  rows that are displayed in the viewport relative to the number of
  rows in the results list. If all the rows have not yet been read
  into the results list, the AVM uses the MAX-DATA-GUESS attribute
  to estimate the total size.
 You must put the browse into a frame on the same procedure level
  on which the browse is defined. For example, you cannot define a
  browse in an outer procedure and then display it in a frame defined
  within an internal procedure.
 You cannot display a browse widget in a down frame. The AVM
  automatically converts any frame containing a browse to a 1 down
  frame.
 You can modify the field values displayed in the current iteration of a browse by using
  the WITH BROWSE option of the DISPLAY statement:

 The browse widget has built-in support
  for the HOME, END, PAGE-UP,
  and PAGE-DOWN key functions.
 You can specify an application-defined widget ID for a compile-time defined
  browse widget using the form-item phrase in either
  the FORM statement or the DEFINE FRAME statement. See the FORM statement and DEFINE FRAME statement reference entries for more information.
 ABL treats the query associated with a browse as a scrolling
  query. You do not have to specify SCROLLING in the DEFINE QUERY
  statement.
 When you execute an OPEN QUERY or REPOSITION statement for the
  query associated with the browse, the browse is automatically adjusted to
  remain in sync with the query. However, when you execute a GET statement,
  the browse is not adjusted. You can use the GET statement to perform
  background processing without affecting the browse, but you must
  execute a REPOSITION statement to put the query and browse back in
  sync.
 The record locking behavior specified for a query in the DEFINE BROWSE
  statement overrides the record locking behavior specified with the
  OPEN QUERY statement. The default record locking behavior of a browse
  widget is NO-LOCK. The default record locking behavior of a query
  defined with the OPEN QUERY statement is SHARE-LOCK. If you define
  a query and a browse widget for the query without explicitly defining
  record locking behavior, the query will have the NO-LOCK behavior.
 For an updateable browse, the AVM re-gets the record with a SHARE-LOCK
  when the user first edits a row, if it initially has a NO-LOCK.
  The user then can make changes to the updateable cells in the row.
  When the user leaves a row with changes (moves to a new row or another
  widget), the AVM starts a transaction and gets the record with EXCLUSIVE-LOCK
  and NO-WAIT. If the AVM gets the record, the record is updated,
  the record is disconnected (removes the lock), the transaction ends,
  and the lock is downgraded to its original status. If the get record
  with EXCLUSIVE-LOCK fails, the transaction is backed out, an error
  message is displayed, and focus remains with the edited browse row with
  the changed data. To redisplay the original data, use the DISPLAY...WITH
  BROWSE statement.
 All LEAVE triggers for a browse row execute before the row changes are
  committed. If the LEAVE trigger returns a NO-APPLY, the changes are
  not committed.
 It is also possible to use an updateable browse to add new records
  and delete old ones.

 Browse
  widgets in Windows have user search capabilities. Special events
  allow you to extend these capabilities.

 To select more than one row in a browse widget, press CTRL and then click on the rows
  you want to select.
 When an updateable browse enters edit mode, all selected records
  are deselected. Essentially, a browse in edit mode ignores multiple
  selections.
 The ADD-CALC-COLUMN, ADD-COLUMNS-FROM and ADD-LIKE-COLUMN methods
  may be used on a compile-time defined browse to add a dynamic browse
  column. If a dynamic browse column in a compile-time defined browse
  is made updateable, the browse is changed to a NO-ASSIGN browse
  and you become responsible for any database update associated with
  it.
 The browse's QUERY attribute can now be set to the Unknown value (?).
  If this is done, all browse columns are removed.
• The browse's QUERY attribute can now be changed to any query. Previously,
  the new query had to have the same underlying fields as the original
  query. If the new query is different, all browse columns are removed.
  You must specify new columns with the ADD-CALC-COLUMN, ADD-COLUMNS-FROM,
  and ADD-LIKE-COLUMN methods.

See also

ADD-CALC-COLUMN() method, ADD-COLUMNS-FROM() method, ADD-LIKE-COLUMN() method, Class-based data member access, CLOSE QUERY statement, CREATE BROWSE statement, CURRENT-CHANGED function, CURRENT-RESULT-ROW function, DEFINE QUERY statement, DISPLAY statement, FIND statement, FORM statement, Format phrase, Frame phrase, GET statement, NUM-RESULTS function, OPEN QUERY statement, RUN statement




DEFINE BUTTON statement

The DEFINE BUTTON statement defines a push button
that is created at compile time for use within the current procedure
or class.

Note: Does not apply to SpeedScript programming.

Syntax

[ PRIVATE ] BUTTON button: Defines and identifies a button widget as a class-scoped
    object. A class-scoped handle-based object is not a member of a
    class, but provides a resource that is privately available to the
    class definition similar to a non-shared data element in a procedure
    definition. The option to specify the PRIVATE access mode is provided
    for readability. You cannot specify PRIVATE when defining a button
    widget as a data element in a method or procedure.

    Note: This option is applicable only when defining a
    class-scoped button widget in a class definition (.cls) file.

BUTTON button: Defines and identifies a button widget for access only within
    the current procedure, class, or method of a class.

AUTO-END-KEY: Specifies that when you choose this button, the AVM applies
    the ENDKEY event to the frame.

AUTO-GO: Specifies that when you choose this button, the AVM applies
    the GO event to the frame.

DEFAULT: Specify DEFAULT to indicate that the button is a default button.
    A default button is one that handles all RETURN events when no other
    RETURN-enabling widget in the frame or dialog box has focus. RETURN-enabling
    widgets include any field-level widget for which a RETURN trigger
    is defined, or any button, whether or not it has a trigger defined.
    Thus, if a button has focus, that button handles the next RETURN
    event. If any other field-level widget without a RETURN trigger has
    focus, the default button handles the next RETURN event.

    To
    make the button the default button for the frame in which it resides,
    you must also set the frame's DEFAULT-BUTTON option.

BGCOLOR expression: Supported only for backward compatibility.

CONTEXT-HELP-ID expression: An integer value that specifies the identifier of the help topic
    for this button in a help file specified at the session, window
    or dialog box level using the CONTEXT-HELP-FILE attribute.

DCOLOR expression: Specifies the display color for the button in character interfaces.
    This option is ignored in graphical interfaces.

FGCOLOR expression: Supported only for backward compatibility.

FONT number: Specifies the font for the button label. The value number must
    be an expression that resolves to an integer value. That integer
    must be associated with a specific font in your system environment
    files.

{IMAGE | IMAGE-UP } image-phrase: An image that you want to appear within the button when the button
    is in its up state. If the image does not have a down state, for
    code readability you might want to use the IMAGE option instead
    of the IMAGE-UP option.

    The IMAGE | IMAGE-UP image-phrase option
    is ignored in character interfaces.

    The syntax of image-phrase is
    as follows:

    For more information on this syntax, see the Image phrase reference
    entry.

IMAGE-DOWN image-phrase: An image that you want to appear within the button when the button
    is in its down state. The IMAGE-DOWN option is ignored in character
    interfaces.

    For more information, see the Image phrase reference
    entry.

    Note: The AVM draws the 3D effect only if
    a button has an up image, but no down image.

IMAGE-INSENSITIVE image-phrase: An image you want to appear within the button when the button
    is in its insensitive (disabled) state. This option is ignored in
    character interfaces.

    For more information, see the Image phrase reference
    entry.

MOUSE-POINTER name: Specifies the mouse pointer for the button. The character value name is
    either the name of a predefined ABL pointer, or the name of a Windows.cur file
    that defines a pointer or an.ani file that
    contains an animated cursor.

LABEL label: The label displayed on the button. The name should describe the
    action invoked when the button is chosen. The value of label must
    be a string enclosed in quotes. The default label is the button
    name. If you use the LIKE button option and you
    do not use the LABEL option, the button inherits the label of the
    button you name.

    You can indicate a character within the label
    to be used as a navigation mnemonic in Windows. Indicate the character
    by preceding it with an ampersand (&). When the button is displayed,
    the mnemonic is underlined. The user can choose the button by pressing ALT and the underlined letter.
    If you specify more than one button with the same mnemonic, the
    AVM transfers focus to each of these in tab order when you make
    a selection.

    To include a literal ampersand within a label,
    specify a double ampersand (&&).

LIKE button: Indicates the name of a defined button whose characteristics
    you want to use for a new button. If you name a button with this
    option, you must have defined that button earlier in the procedure.
    You can override the label, image, and on phrase by using the LABEL,
    IMAGE, and on-phrase options. If you do not use
    these options, the button takes on the characteristics of the button
    you name.

PFCOLOR expression: Specifies the prompt-for color for the button in character interfaces. This
    option is ignored in graphical interfaces.

size-phrase: Specifies the outside dimensions of the button widget. Following
    is the syntax for size-phrase:

    If you specify SIZE or SIZE-CHARS, the units
    are characters; if you specify SIZE-PIXELS, the units are pixels.
    For character units, the values width and height must
    be decimal constants; for pixel units, they must be integer constants.
    For more information, see the SIZE phrase reference
    entry.

    If no size is specified, the AVM calculates a default
    size for the button. This calculation adds the button's border thickness
    (that is, the combination of 3D shadows and highlights, and the
    focus rectangle) to the up image size defined by the IMAGE | IMAGE-UP image-phrase option.
    However, the thickness of the border depends on whether the button
    has dual images (up and down images) and whether it is a FLAT-BUTTON
    or NO-FOCUS button.

    The following table explains how many
    pixels the image size expands based on the button size.

    Table 1. Determining
    button border thickness

NO-FOCUS [ FLAT-BUTTON ]: Specifies that the button should not accept focus. A button
    for which the NO-FOCUS attribute is defined will not take focus
    when the mouse is clicked on it, and it will not accept keyboard
    input. Also, the AVM will not generate ENTRY or LEAVE events for
    the button. NO-FOCUS buttons behave similarly to standard Windows
    toolbar buttons. The NO-FOCUS option is supported in Windows only.

    A
    button with the NO-FOCUS attribute is not added to its parent frame's
    tab order. However, if the NO-FOCUS attribute is switched from TRUE
    to FALSE before the button is realized, the button is added to the end
    of its parent frame's tab order. Switching the NO-FOCUS attribute from
    FALSE to TRUE before realization removes the button from its parent
    frame's tab order.

    Note: If a frame that contains
    a NO-FOCUS button does not itself have focus, the frame does not
    receive focus when the button is pushed. In this situation, frame
    entry or leave events are not generated. Focus stays on the current
    widget when a NO-FOCUS button is pushed, even across multiple frames
    in a window.

FLAT-BUTTON: A flat button is a new style of button which is two-dimensional
    until the mouse passes over it, at which time, a 3D border appears.

NO-CONVERT-3D-COLORS: Specifies that the colors of the button's images (that is,
    up, down, and insensitive) are not converted to the system 3D colors.
    By default, the AVM converts shades of gray in an image to the corresponding
    system 3D color. Using the NO-CONVERT-3D-COLORS option overrides
    this default behavior. The NO-CONVERT-3D-COLORS option is supported
    in Windows only.

    The following table describes the conversion
    process.

    Table 2. 3D-color
    conversions for buttons

    During a session, if Windows notifies the AVM
    that the system colors have changed, the button's images are re-loaded
    and converted to the new system colors, unless the NO-CONVERT-3D-COLORS
    option is specified.

TOOLTIP tooltip: Allows you to define a help text message for a button. The
    AVM automatically displays this text when the user pauses the mouse
    pointer over the button.

    You can add or change the TOOLTIP
    option at any time. If TOOLTIP is set to "" or the Unknown value (?),
    then the ToolTip is removed from the button. No ToolTip is the default.
    ToolTips are supported in Windows only.

DROP-TARGET: Indicates whether you want to be able to drop a file onto the object.

trigger-phrase: Specifies application triggers for the button.

    For
    more information, see the Trigger phrase reference
    entry.

Example

This
procedure defines two buttons, positions the buttons within a form, assigns
triggers to the buttons with ON statements, and enables the buttons
by referencing them in an ENABLE statement:

r-button.p

When the procedure is run, the first Customer's
number and name are initially displayed. The user can choose either
the MORE button to see the entire Customer record or the NEXT button
to see the next Customer's number and name.

The following
example sets up a browse that allows you to drop a file on the browse:

Notes

 When
  a frame receives a default RETURN event, it actually sends a CHOOSE
  event to the default button.
 To create the compile-time defined button you are defining,
  you must define a compile-time defined frame that contains the button.
  Each frame you define that contains the same button creates an additional
  instance of that button. The handle for a compile-time defined button
  is not available until the button is created.
 You must enable a button to make it available to the user. You
  can enable a button by setting its SENSITIVE attribute or by referencing
  it in an ENABLE or UPDATE statement.
 On a character-based terminal, a button appears as the label
  enclosed in angle brackets (). The user can move
  the mouse pointer to the button by pressing TAB or
  arrow keys. The user can then choose the button by pressing SPACEBAR or RETURN.
 You can specify an application-defined widget ID for a compile-time defined
  button widget using the form-item phrase in either
  the FORM statement or the DEFINE FRAME statement. See the FORM statement and DEFINE FRAME statement reference entries for more information.
 To make an application portable between graphical and character environments,
  you can specify an image and a label for a button. In graphical
  environments, the image is used and the label is ignored; in character environments,
  the label is used and the image is ignored.
 If you specify a size for a button, the button is not affected
  by changes to the size of any contained image. If you do not specify
  a size for the button, the button changes size to fit the image.
 In Windows, ABL supplies the following prepackaged images for
  the up, down, left, and right arrows: btn-up-arrow, btn-down-arrow, btn-left-arrow, and btn-right-arrow.
  Specify one of these items in place of a filename.

  Use these values
  for the IMAGE-UP option. Doing so makes the prepackaged image available
  to ABL in its up, down, and insensitive state, without specifying
  the IMAGE-DOWN and the IMAGE-INSENSITIVE options. You will also
  get appropriately sized arrows based on your screen resolution.
 You can apply entry to a NO-FOCUS button programmatically. The AVM
  does not report an error. However, the button will not respond to keyboard
  activity.
 The AVM draws the 3D effect only if a button has an up image,
  but no down image. If the button has both an up image and a down
  image, the AVM does not draw the 3D effect; the images, themselves,
  should be drawn with a 3D effect.
 The AVM only performs the color conversion process on bitmaps (.bmp files)
  that contain 256 or fewer colors. However, you might consider using
  16-color bitmaps because only the first sixteen entries in the bitmap's
  color table will be converted.
 Icon colors (.ico files) are not converted,
  even if CONVERT-3D-COLORS is TRUE. To ensure that an icon will be displayed
  properly on a button, draw icons with a transparent background.

See also

Class-based data member access, FORM statement, Image phrase




DEFINE FRAME statement

Defines and creates a frame or dialog box that
is created at compile time for use in one or more procedures, or
within a single class.

Syntax

NEW SHARED FRAME frame: Defines and identifies a frame to be shared by a procedure called directly
    or indirectly by the current procedure. The called procedure must name
    the same frame in a DEFINE SHARED FRAME statement.

SHARED FRAME frame: Defines and identifies a frame that was created by another procedure that
    used the DEFINE NEW SHARED FRAME statement. When you use the DEFINE
    SHARED FRAME statement, you cannot name any fields or variables
    in that frame that are not already named in the frame described by
    the DEFINE NEW SHARED FRAME statement.

[ PRIVATE ] FRAME frame: Defines and identifies a frame widget as a class-scoped object.
    A class-scoped handle-based object is not a member of a class, but
    provides a resource that is privately available to the class definition
    similar to a non-shared data element in a procedure definition.
    The option to specify the PRIVATE access mode is provided for readability.
    You cannot specify PRIVATE when defining a frame widget as a data
    element in a method or procedure.

    Note: This option
    is applicable only when defining a class-scoped frame widget in
    a class definition (.cls) file.

FRAME frame: Defines and identifies a frame widget for access only within
    the current procedure, class, or method of a class.

form-item: Specifies a field-level widget or value to display in the frame, or a SPACE or SKIP
    directive. The data specified by all form items is owned by a single field group,
    duplicated for each data iteration in the frame.

    This is the syntax for form-item:

    field: Specifies a field-level widget to be displayed in the frame. This value cannot
        be an expression or a frame. To specify a child frame, you must first define the
        parent and child frames, and then assign the FRAME attribute of the child frame to
        the handle of the parent frame. The child frame is assigned to the same field
        group as other form items.

    format-phrase: Specifies one or more frame attributes for a field or variable. For more
        information on format-phrase, see the Format phrase reference entry.

    constant: A constant value.

    at-phrase: Specifies the location of a value within the frame. The AT phrase does not left
        justify the data; it simply indicates the placement of the data area. This is
        the syntax for at-phrase:

        For more information, see the AT phrase
        reference entry.

    TO n: The number (n) of the column where you want the right edge of
        the value. The TO option does not right justify the data; it simply indicates the
        placement of the data area.

    BGCOLOR expression: Specifies the background color of the form item in graphical interfaces. This
        option is ignored in character interfaces.

    DCOLOR expression: Specifies the display color of the form item in character interfaces. This
        option is ignored in graphical interfaces.

    FGCOLOR expression: Specifies the foreground color of the form item in graphical interfaces. This
        option is ignored in character interfaces.

    FONT expression: Specifies the font of the form item.

    PFCOLOR expression: Specifies the prompt color of the form item in character interfaces. This option
        is ignored in graphical interfaces.

    VIEW-AS TEXT: Specifies that the form item displays as a TEXT widget rather than as a
        FILL-IN.

    WIDGET-ID id-number: Specifies a widget ID for a field-level widget or value to display in a frame.
        The value of id-number must be an expression that evaluates
        to an even integer value between 2 and 65534, inclusive, and must be unique
        across all widget IDs in the window or dialog box.

        If you specify an invalid ID, the compiler displays an error message. This
        option is supported in graphical interfaces only, and only in Windows.

    SPACE (n): Identifies the number (n) of blank spaces to insert after the
        expression displays. The n can be 0. If the number of spaces
        you specify is more than the spaces left on the current line of the frame, the AVM
        starts a new line and discards extra spaces. If you do not use this option or you
        do not use n, the AVM inserts one space between items in the
        frame.

    SKIP (n): Identifies the number (n) of blank lines to insert after the
        expression is displayed. The number of blank lines can be 0. If you do not use
        this option, the AVM does not skip a line between expressions unless the
        expressions do not fit on one line. If you use the SKIP option but do not specify
        n, or if n is 0, the AVM starts a new line
        unless it is already at the beginning of a new line.

record: Represents the name of the record you want to display. Naming
    a record is shorthand for listing each field individually, as a
    form item.

EXCEPT field...: Tells the AVM to display all the fields in the frame except
    those fields listed in the EXCEPT phrase.

HEADER: Tells the AVM to place the following items in a header section at
    the top of the frame in a separate field group from all other data.
    In addition to fields, variables, and constants, the frame header
    can contain expressions, images, and rectangles. The AVM reevaluates
    these expressions each time it displays the frame.

    When you
    use the HEADER option, the AVM disregards OpenEdge Data Dictionary
    field labels for fields you name in the DEFINE FRAME statement.
    Use character strings to specify labels on fields you name in the frame
    header.

BACKGROUND: Specifies that any following frame items are displayed in the
    frame background, behind the data and header in a separate field
    group. Typically, this option is used to display images or rectangles
    behind the data.

head-item: A description of a value displayed in the frame header or
    background, or a SPACE or SKIP directive. Following is the syntax
    for head-item:

    This is exactly the same as the syntax for a form-item,
    except that a head-item can be an expression
    and does not include the PFCOLOR option. If you use an expression
    in a HEADER or BACKGROUND phrase, the expression is evaluated each
    time the frame is viewed. If you give the PAGE-TOP or PAGE-BOTTOM
    option for the frame, the expression is evaluated for each page.
    This lets you include a reference to the PAGE-NUMBER function in
    the frame header.

frame-phrase: Specifies additional options for the frame, including the VIEW-AS DIALOG-BOX
    option to define the frame as a dialog box. For more information
    on frame and dialog box options, see the Frame phrase reference
    entry.

Examples

The
following example, r-deffrm.p, uses the DEFINE FRAME
statement to set up the format of a frame. It then scopes that frame
to a FOR EACH block.

r-deffrm.p

The following example defines three frames.
The cust-info frame is scoped to the trigger for the b\next button
where it is first referenced. Similarly, the cust-dtl frame
is scoped to the bdtl trigger. The butt-frame frame
is scoped to the outer procedure block.

r-dffrm1.p

The following example uses a set of thin rectangles
as lines to create graphic columns within a frame background:

r-bkgrnd.p

The following procedure defines the shared frame
cust-frame. It also defines a shared variable and a shared buffer.
For each Customer whose Customer number is less than 20, the procedure
displays Customer information in the cust-frame. The format for
the cust-frame is defined in the r-shrfrm.i include
file.

r-shrfrm.p

Following is the r-shrfrm.i include
file:

r-shrfrm.i

After the r-shrfrm.p procedure
displays the Customer information, it calls the r-updord.p procedure.

The r-updord.p procedure
defines the variable, frame, and buffer that were originally defined
in the r-shrfrm.p procedure. However, in this
second reference to the items, the keyword NEW is omitted. The r-updord.p procedure
displays, and lets you update, the Order information for the Customer
displayed in the cust-frame. The Order information is displayed
in the same frame.

r-updord.p

The following example, r-fof1.p,
creates a dialog box to display Customer information from a query.
The dialog box contains three child frames to display Customer contact
information (FRAME cont-fr), Customer account information (FRAME
acct-fr), and control buttons for moving through the query results
list (FRAME ctrl-fr).

r-fof1.p

Notes

 You
  cannot define a SHARED or NEW SHARED frame widget in a persistent
  procedure. If you do, ABL raises ERROR on the RUN statement that
  creates the procedure.
 You cannot define a SHARED or NEW SHARED frame widget in a class
  definition (.cls) file. If you do, ABL generates a
  compilation error.
 If you do not specify the font for a frame, ABL uses the system
  default font, not the font of the window. This is because ABL determines
  the frame layout at compile time when the window's fonts (known
  at run time) are not yet available.
 You can use just one DEFINE FRAME statement per frame in a procedure.
 If you name variables or parent child frames to a shared frame,
  ABL does not automatically make those variables and child frames
  shared. If you want to share the variables and child frames among
  procedures, you must define each variable and frame using the SHARED
  option in all the sharing procedures.
 ABL scopes a newly defined frame to the block that first references
  the frame. (The DEFINE FRAME statement does not count as a reference.) ABL
  scopes a shared frame outside of the called procedure.
 The frame-phrase options specified in a DEFINE
  NEW SHARED FRAME statement are carried over to all corresponding
  DEFINE SHARED FRAME statements and cannot be overridden.
 You can use different field-level help and validation in new
  shared, and shared frames.
 You must define a shared frame before referencing that frame
  in a procedure.
 All frame fields and Frame phrase options in a shared frame
  must first be defined in the initial DEFINE NEW SHARED FRAME statement
  or an additional FORM statement in the same procedure. Procedures
  that share this frame only have to define fields that correspond
  to the fields in the initial definition plus any specified ACCUM
  option. Other Frame phrase options for the SHARED frames are allowed,
  but are ignored except for the ACCUM option. This allows you to
  make use of the same FORM statement in an include file for both
  the NEW SHARED and matching SHARED frames. See the FORM statement reference
  entry for more information.
 If you use an Aggregate phrase to accumulate a value within
  a shared frame, you must also use the ACCUM option in each procedure
  that uses the shared frame.
 If you define a frame to use as a DDE frame, you must realize the frame
  (display it) before using it as a conversation end-point. If you want the DDE frame to
  remain invisible during its use in a DDE conversation, set its HIDDEN attribute to TRUE
  after realizing the frame. For information on DDE frames, see OpenEdge Programming Interfaces.
• If you have enabled application-defined widget IDs in your ABL
  GUI application, by specifying the Use Widget ID (-usewidgetid)
  startup parameter, then the AVM uses the value specified in the
  WIDGET-ID option to set the WIDGET-ID attribute for
  this widget when it creates the widget at run time, instead of using
  the widget ID it normally generates by default. If you have not
  enabled application-defined widget IDs, then the AVM ignores this
  option setting at run time.

  For more information about the WIDGET-ID
  attribute, see its reference entry in the Handle Attributes and Methods Reference. For more information about the Use Widget
  ID (-usewidgetid) startup parameter, see Startup Command and Parameter Reference.

See also

Class-based data member access, DEFINE BUFFER statement, DEFINE VARIABLE statement, FORM statement, Frame phrase, RUN statement




DEFINE IMAGE statement

(Windows only; Graphical
interfaces only)

Defines an image widget in a graphical interface
that is created at compile time for use within a single procedure
or class. An image widget is a container for an operating system
image file and can be displayed in a form or used as a form background.

Note: Does not apply to SpeedScript programming.

Syntax

[ PRIVATE ] IMAGE image-name: Defines and identifies an image widget as a class-scoped
    object. A class-scoped handle-based object is not a member of a
    class, but provides a resource that is privately available to the
    class definition similar to a non-shared data element in a procedure
    definition. The option to specify the PRIVATE access mode is provided
    for readability. You cannot specify PRIVATE when defining an image
    widget as a data element in a method or procedure.

    Note: This option is applicable only when defining a
    class-scoped image widget in a class definition (.cls) file.

IMAGE image-name: Defines and identifies an image widget for access only within
    the current procedure, class, or method of a class.

image-phrase: Specifies the file where the image is stored and the portion
    of the image to read. This is the syntax for image-phrase:

    For more information on this syntax, see the Image phrase reference
    entry.

    You must specify either the LIKE option, an Image phrase
    or a Size phrase within the DEFINE IMAGE statement, and you may
    specify any two or all three.

LIKE image: Specifies a previously defined image from which this image inherits
    attributes. You can override specific attributes by specifying other options
    of the DEFINE IMAGE statement.

    You must specify either the
    LIKE option, an Image phrase or a Size phrase within the DEFINE
    IMAGE statement, and you may specify any two or all three.

size-phrase: Specifies the outside dimensions of the image widget. This
    is the syntax for size-phrase:

    If you specify SIZE or SIZE-CHARS, the units
    are characters; if you specify SIZE-PIXELS, the units are pixels.
    If you use character units, the values width and height must
    be decimal constants; for pixel units, they must be integer constants. For
    more information, see the SIZE phrase reference
    entry.

    You must specify either the LIKE option, an Image phrase
    or a Size phrase within the DEFINE IMAGE statement, and you may
    specify any two or all three.

BGCOLOR expression: Has no effect; supported only for backward compatibility.

FGCOLOR expression: Has no effect; supported only for backward compatibility.

CONVERT-3D-COLORS: Specifies that the colors associated with an image will be converted
    to the system 3D colors when an image is loaded. The following table
    describes the color conversion process.

    Table 1. 3D-color
    conversions for images

    During a session, if Windows notifies the AVM
    that the system colors are changed, all images that have this option
    are reloaded and converted to the new system colors.

TOOLTIP tooltip: Allows you to define a help text message for an image widget. The
    AVM automatically displays this text when the user pauses the mouse pointer
    over the image widget.

    You can add or change the TOOLTIP option
    at any time. If TOOLTIP is set to "" or the Unknown value (?),
    then the ToolTip is removed from the button. No ToolTip is the default.
    ToolTips are supported in Windows only.

STRETCH-TO-FIT: Forces the image to expand or contract to fit within the
    image widget's boundaries.

    This option has no effect if an
    icon is displayed on the image widget.

RETAIN-SHAPE: Indicates that the image should retain its aspect ratio (expand
    or contract equally in both dimensions). This may leave some uncovered space
    at the bottom or right of the image widget.

    RETAIN-SHAPE is
    ignored if STRETCH-TO-FIT is FALSE or if an icon is displayed on
    the image widget.

TRANSPARENT: Indicates that the background color of the image is transparent. The
    background color is determined by the color of the pixel in the
    lower left corner of the image.

    The TRANSPARENT option overrides
    the CONVERT-3D-COLORS option; if both are set, CONVERT-3D-COLORS
    is ignored.

    This option has no effect if an icon is displayed
    on the image widget.

Example

This
procedure defines an image widget named trashcan,
and loads into the widget a series of operating system image files
that create an animation of a fire burning in a trash can. The user
begins the animation by choosing the Animate button. This procedure serves
as an illustration only. It depends on the existence of image filenames ANI01, ANI02.... ANI14, which are not provided.

r-image.p

Notes

 In
  Windows, if the file has no extension, the AVM by default looks
  for image files with either a.bmp or.ico extension.
 To create the compile-time defined image you are defining, you
  must define a compile-time defined frame that contains the image.
  Each frame you define that contains the same image creates an additional
  instance of that image. The handle for a compile-time defined image
  is not available until the image is created.
 The AVM only performs the color conversion process on bitmaps (.bmp files)
  that contain 256 or fewer colors. However, you might consider using
  16-color bitmaps because only the first sixteen entries in the bitmap's
  color table will be converted.
 Icon colors (.ico files) are not converted,
  even if CONVERT-3D-COLORS is TRUE.
 See Image phrase for
  the list of supported image file formats.
 You can specify an application-defined widget ID for a compile-time defined
  image using the form-item phrase in either the
  FORM statement or the DEFINE FRAME statement. See the FORM statement and DEFINE FRAME statement reference entries for more information.

See also

Class-based data member access, FORM statement, Image phrase




DEFINE MENU statement

Defines a menu widget that is created at compile
time for use in one or more procedures, or within a single class.
You can use a menu widget as a pop-up menu or a menu bar.

Note: Does not apply to SpeedScript programming.

Syntax

NEW SHARED MENU menu-name: Defines and identifies a menu widget that can be used by other procedures.
    The menu remains available to other procedures until the procedure
    that contains this statement ends.

SHARED MENU menu-name: Defines and identifies a menu widget that was created in another procedure
    with the DEFINE NEW SHARED MENU statement.

[ PRIVATE ] MENU menu-name: Defines and identifies a menu widget as a class-scoped object.
    A class-scoped handle-based object is not a member of a class, but
    provides a resource that is privately available to the class definition
    similar to a non-shared data element in a procedure definition.
    The option to specify the PRIVATE access mode is provided for readability.
    You cannot specify PRIVATE when defining a menu widget as a data
    element in a method or procedure.

    Note: This option
    is applicable only when defining a class-scoped menu widget in a
    class definition (.cls) file.

MENU menu-name: Defines and identifies a menu widget for access only within
    the current procedure, class, or method of a class.

BGCOLOR expression: Supported only for backward compatibility.

DCOLOR expression: Specifies the display color for the menu in character interfaces.
    This option is ignored in graphical interfaces.

FGCOLOR expression: Supported only for backward compatibility.

PFCOLOR expression: Specifies the prompt-for color for the menu in character interfaces. This
    option is ignored in graphical interfaces.

FONT number: Supported only for backward compatibility.

MENUBAR: Specifies that the menu displays as a menu bar.

TITLE title: Specifies the title of the menu. Only pop-up menus can have
    titles. This option is invalid for menu bars. The title displays
    at the top of the menu. In environments that do not support this
    option, it is ignored.

LIKE menu: Specifies a previously defined menu whose characteristics you
    want to apply to the new menu. If you name a menu with this option,
    you must have defined that menu previously in the procedure.

menu-element-descriptor: Specifies an element display on the menu. Each element is either a normal menu item,
    a submenu, a rule, or a blank space. The last two are valid only for pop-up menus. You
    must specify one or more menu elements, unless you use the LIKE option.

    This is the syntax for menu-element-descriptor:

    RULE: Specifies that a rule or line is inserted at this point in the menu. You can use
        this, for example, to divide the menu into sections.

    SKIP: Specifies that a blank line is inserted at this point in the menu. You can use
        this, for example, to divide the menu into sections.

    SUB-MENU submenu[ DISABLED ][ LABEL label]: Specifies that a submenu displays as a menu item. The submenu must be previously
        defined in the procedure. The submenu appears when the user chooses that item. The
        submenu cannot be a menu bar. The DISABLED and LABEL options for a submenu are the
        same as described for the menu-item-phrase.

    menu-item-phrase: Specifies a normal menu item. This is the syntax for
        menu-item-phrase:

        MENU-ITEM menu-item-name: The name of the menu item you are defining.

        ACCELERATOR keylabel: Specifies a keyboard accelerator for this menu item. A
            keyboard accelerator is a key—sometimes modified by SHIFT, CONTROL, or ALT—that chooses a menu item even if the menu
            is not displayed. The value keylabel
            must be character-string expression that evaluates to a valid key label
            recognized by the AVM, such as a, F1, or ALT+SHIFT+F1.
            See the topics on handling user input in the OpenEdge
            Programming Interfaces for the precedence rules that the AVM uses
            for handling keyboard input.

        BGCOLOR expression: Specifies the background color for the menu item in graphical
            environments. If you omit this option, the menu item inherits the background
            color of the menu.

        DCOLOR expression: Specifies the display color for the menu item in character interfaces. If
            you omit this option, the menu item inherits the display color of the
            menu.

        DISABLED: Specifies that the menu item is initially disabled for input. This means
            that the user cannot choose this item. Disabled items are grayed out (in
            environments that support it).

        FGCOLOR expression: Specifies the foreground color for the menu item in graphical
            environments. If you omit this option, the menu item inherits the foreground
            color of the menu.

        FONT expression: Specifies the font for the menu item. If you omit this option, the menu
            item inherits the font of the menu.

        LABEL label: Specifies the text that is displayed in the menu for a choosable menu
            item or submenu. Include an ampersand (&) within the label to assign
            the following letter as a mnemonic for the menu item. This means that when
            the menu is displayed, the user can choose the item by pressing that
            single key. If you do not include an ampersand within the label, Windows
            treats the first character as a mnemonic.

            To include a literal ampersand within a label, specify two ampersands
            (&&).

        PFCOLOR expression: Specifies the prompt-for color for the menu item in character interfaces.
            If you omit this option, the menu item inherits the prompt-for color of the
            menu.

        READ-ONLY: Specifies that this menu item is read-only text. The user cannot choose
            this item.

        TOGGLE-BOX: Specifies that the menu item is displayed as a checkbox that the user can
            toggle on or off. In environments that do not support this option, it is
            ignored.

        trigger-phrase: Specifies application triggers for the menu item. Typically, you
            associate a CHOOSE trigger with each menu item.

            For more information, see the Trigger phrase reference entry.

Example

The r-bar.p procedure
defines a menu bar, mbar, that contains three pull-down submenus
labeled Topic, Move, and Exit. The handle of mbar is assigned to
the current window. The ON statements define triggers to execute
when you choose the corresponding menu items.

r-bar.p

Notes

 You cannot define a SHARED or NEW SHARED menu widget in a persistent procedure. If you
  do, ABL raises ERROR on the RUN statement that creates the procedure.
 You cannot define a SHARED or NEW SHARED menu widget in a class definition
  (.cls) file. If you do, ABL generates a compilation error.
 Keyboard accelerators are specified for menu-items forward and backward. The user can
  press PAGE-DOWN key to look at the next Customer record and the PAGE-UP to view the
  previous Customer record.
 The menu item quititem has a label E&xit; the ampersand makes X the mnemonic for
  that menu item.
 You cannot define a submenu with the same name more than once in the same menu tree.
  Thus, if menu mFile contains both submenu mOptions and submenu mSave, submenu mSave cannot
  also contain submenu mOptions.
 Menu items in different menus and submenus can have the same names. In the above
  procedure, the menu items in myfile and myobjects share the same names. To avoid
  ambiguity, use the IN MENU or IN SUB-MENU option to identify the parent menu or
  submenu.
• There are instances where you cannot avoid ambiguity in menu item references. In such
  instances, ABL always references the first unambiguous instance of the menu item. In
  particular, if the same submenu containing a menu item appears in more than one menu and
  each menu defines another instance of the same menu item, you can only reference that menu
  item in the submenu from the first menu that contains it. Thus, if submenu mOptions
  contains menu item mSave and the menus mFile and mDraw (in that order) both contain
  submenu mOptions and another menu item mSave, you can only reference menu item mSave in
  submenu mOptions from menu mFile. You cannot uniquely reference menu item mSave in submenu
  mOptions from menu mDraw because menu mDraw contains another menu item mSave.

See also

Class-based data member access, COLOR phrase, DEFINE SUB-MENU statement, RUN statement




DEFINE RECTANGLE statement

Defines a rectangle widget that is created at compile time for use within a single
procedure or class.

Note: Does not apply to SpeedScript programming.

Syntax

[ PRIVATE ] RECTANGLE rectangle: Defines and identifies a rectangle widget as a class-scoped object. A class-scoped
    handle-based object is not a member of a class, but provides a resource that is
    privately available to the class definition similar to a non-shared data element in a
    procedure definition. The option to specify the PRIVATE access mode is provided for
    readability. You cannot specify PRIVATE when defining a rectangle widget as a data
    element in a method or procedure.

    Note: This option is applicable only when
    defining a class-scoped rectangle widget in a class definition (.cls)
    file.

RECTANGLE rectangle: Defines and identifies a rectangle widget for access only within the current
    procedure, class, or method of a class.

LIKE rectangle2: Specifies a previously defined rectangle whose characteristics you want to apply to
    the new rectangle. If you name a rectangle with this option, you must have defined that
    rectangle previously in the procedure.

NO-FILL: Indicates that only the outline of the rectangle should be drawn. By default, the
    rectangle is filled with the background color.

EDGE-CHARS width: Specifies the width of the rectangle outline in characters. The default width is 1. If
    you do not want an edge on the rectangle, specify EDGE-CHARS 0.

EDGE-PIXELS width: Specifies the width of the rectangle outline in pixels. The default width is 1. If you
    do not want an edge on the rectangle, specify EDGE-PIXELS 0.

DCOLOR expression: Specifies the fill color of the rectangle in character interfaces. This option is
    ignored in graphical interfaces.

BGCOLOR expression: Specifies the background color or fill color of the rectangle in graphical interfaces.
    This option is ignored in character interfaces.

FGCOLOR expression: Specifies the foreground color or edge color of the rectangle in graphical interfaces.
    This option is ignored in character interfaces.

GRAPHIC-EDGE: Specifies that in a character interface, the rectangle is drawn with graphic
    characters. This option is ignored in a graphical interface. This overrides the
    EDGE-CHARS and EDGE-PIXELS options. The border is one graphic unit thick.

PFCOLOR expression: Specifies the edge color of the rectangle in character interfaces. This option is
    ignored in graphical interfaces. It is also ignored if you specify GRAPHIC-EDGE.

ROUNDED: Specifies that the rectangle appears with rounded corners. This
    option is ignored in character interfaces.

GROUP-BOX: Specifies the rectangle as a group box, which surrounds one or more
    user interface widgets to visually indicate a relationship among the widgets. The
    appearance of a group box changes automatically to conform to the current display
    setting. When the display is set to the Windows-themed user interface, the group box
    rectangle appears with rounded corners and a single-line border. When the display is set
    to the Windows classic user interface, the group box appears with square corners and a
    shaded double-line border. This option is ignored in character interfaces.

size-phrase: Specifies the outside dimensions of the rectangle widget. This is the syntax for
    size-phrase:

    Syntax

    If you specify SIZE or SIZE-CHARS, the units are characters; if you specify
    SIZE-PIXELS, the units are pixels. For character units, the values
    width and height must be decimal constants.
    For pixels units, they must be integer constants. For more information, see the SIZE phrase reference entry.

TOOLTIP tooltip: Allows you to define a help text message for a rectangle widget. The AVM automatically
    displays this text when the user pauses the mouse button over the rectangle
    widget.

    You can add or change the TOOLTIP option at any time. If TOOLTIP is set to
    "" or the Unknown value (?), then the ToolTip is removed. No ToolTip
    is the default. The TOOLTIP option is supported in Windows only.

trigger-phrase: Specifies application triggers for the rectangle.

    For more information, see the
    Trigger phrase reference entry.

Example

The following example uses a set of thin rectangles as lines to create graphic columns
within a frame background:

r-bkgrnd.p

Notes

 To create the compile-time defined rectangle you are defining, you must define a
  compile-time defined frame that contains the rectangle. Each frame you define that
  contains the same rectangle creates an additional instance of that rectangle. The handle
  for a compile-time defined rectangle is not available until the rectangle is created.
 You can specify an application-defined widget ID for a compile-time defined rectangle
  widget using the form-item phrase in either the FORM statement or the
  DEFINE FRAME statement. See the FORM statement and DEFINE FRAME statement reference entries for more information.
• When defining a rectangle, you must specify either the LIKE option or the size
  phrase.

See also

Class-based data member access, FORM statement




DEFINE SUB-MENU statement

Defines a submenu widget that is created at
compile time for use within a single procedure or class. You can
use a submenu widget as a pull-down menu within a menu bar or as
a submenu of a pull-down menu or pop-up menu.

Note: Does
not apply to SpeedScript programming.

Syntax

[ PRIVATE ] SUB-MENU submenu: Defines and identifies a sub-menu widget as a class-scoped object.
    A class-scoped handle-based object is not a member of a class, but
    provides a resource that is privately available to the class definition
    similar to a non-shared data element in a procedure definition.
    The option to specify the PRIVATE access mode is provided for readability.
    You cannot specify PRIVATE when defining a sub-menu widget as a
    data element in a method or procedure.

    Note: This option
    is applicable only when defining a class-scoped sub-menu widget
    in a class definition (.cls) file.

SUB-MENU submenu: Defines and identifies a submenu for access only within the
    current procedure, class, or method of a class.

BGCOLOR expression: Specifies the background color for the submenu in graphical
    interfaces. This option is ignored in character interfaces and Windows.

DCOLOR expression: Specifies the display color for the submenu in character interfaces. This
    option is ignored in graphical interfaces.

FGCOLOR expression: Specifies the foreground color for the submenu in graphical
    interfaces. This option is ignored in character interfaces.

PFCOLOR expression: Specifies the prompt-for color for the submenu in character
    interfaces. This option is ignored in graphical interfaces.

FONT number: Has no effect; supported only for backward compatibility.

SUB-MENU-HELP: Has no effect; supported only for backward compatibility.

LIKE menu: Specifies a previously defined menu or submenu whose characteristics
    you want to apply to the new submenu. If you name a menu with this option,
    you must have previously defined that menu in the procedure. If you
    name a submenu with this option, that submenu must have already been
    used as part of a menu definition.

menu-element-descriptor: Specifies an element displayed on the menu. Each element is
    either a choosable menu item, a submenu, non-choosable text, a rule,
    or a blank space. You must specify one or more menu elements, unless
    you use the LIKE option.

    This is the syntax for menu-element-descriptor:

RULE: Specifies that a rule or line is inserted at this point in the
    submenu. You can use this, for example, to divide the submenu into sections.

SKIP: Specifies that a blank line is inserted at this point in the
    submenu. You can use this, for example, to divide the submenu into sections.

SUB-MENU submenu [ DISABLED ] [ LABEL label ]: Specifies that a submenu is displayed at this menu item. The submenu
    must be previously defined in the procedure. The submenu appears
    when the user chooses that item. The submenu cannot be a menu bar.
    The DISABLED and LABEL options for a submenu are the same as described
    for the menu-item-phrase.

menu-item-phrase: Specifies a choosable menu item. This is the syntax for menu-item-phrase:

MENU-ITEM menu-item-name: The name of the menu item you are defining.

ACCELERATOR keylabel: Specifies a keyboard accelerator for this menu item. A keyboard
    accelerator is a key—possibly modified by SHIFT, CONTROL, or ALT—that chooses a menu item even if the
    menu is not displayed. The value keylabel must be a
    character-string expression that evaluates to a valid key label recognized by the AVM,
    such as a, F1, or ALT+SHIFT+F1. See the topics on handling user input in the
    OpenEdge Programming Interfaces for the precedence rules
    that the AVM uses for handling keyboard input.

BGCOLOR expression: Specifies the background color for the menu item in graphical
    interfaces. If you omit this option, the menu item inherits the
    background color of the submenu.

DCOLOR expression: Specifies the display color for the menu item in character interfaces. If
    you omit this option, the menu item inherits the display color of
    the submenu.

DISABLED: Specifies that the menu item is initially disabled for input.
    This means that the user cannot choose this item. Disabled items
    are grayed out in environments that support it.

FGCOLOR expression: Specifies the foreground color for the menu item in graphical
    interfaces. If you omit this option, the menu item inherits the
    foreground color of the submenu.

FONT expression: Specifies the font for the menu item. If you omit this option,
    the menu item inherits the font of the menu.

LABEL label: Specifies the text that displays in the submenu for a choosable
    menu item or submenu. If you omit LABEL, the AVM displays the item
    handle by default.

    You can include an ampersand (&) within
    the label to indicate that the following letter acts as a mnemonic
    for the menu item. This means that when the menu is displayed, the
    user can choose the item by pressing that single key. If you do
    not include an ampersand within the label, Windows treats the first
    character as a mnemonic. To include a literal ampersand within a
    label, specify a double ampersand (&&).

PFCOLOR expression: Specifies the prompt-for color for the menu item in character
    interfaces. If you omit this option, the menu item inherits the
    prompt-for color of the submenu.

READ-ONLY: Specifies that this menu item is read-only text. The user cannot choose
    this item.

TOGGLE-BOX: Specifies that the menu item is displayed as a checkbox that
    the user can toggle on or off. In environments that do not support
    this option, it is ignored.

trigger-phrase: Specifies application triggers for the menu item. Typically,
    you associate a CHOOSE trigger with each menu item.

    For more information,
    see the Trigger phrase reference
    entry.

Example

The r-menu.p procedure
defines three pull-down submenus. One of the submenus, myedit, contains
a nested submenu, myobjects. The procedure defines a menu bar, mybar,
that contains two submenus labelled File and Edit. The handle of
mybar is assigned to a window mywin. The ON statements define triggers
to execute when you choose the corresponding menu items.

r-menu.p

Notes

 To
  create the compile-time defined submenu you are defining, along
  with any of its descendents (submenus and menu items), you must define
  a compile-time defined menu that contains the submenu. Each menu
  you define that contains the same submenu creates an additional instance
  of the submenu and each of its descendents. The handles for a compile-time
  defined submenu and its descendents are not available until the
  submenu is created in a menu.
 You cannot define a submenu with the same name more than once
  in the same menu tree. Thus, if menu mFile contains both submenu mOptions
  and submenu mSave, submenu mSave cannot also contain submenu mOptions.
 Menu items in different menus and submenus can have the same names.
  In the above procedure, the menu items in myfile and myobjects share
  the same names. To avoid ambiguity, use the IN MENU or IN SUB-MENU
  option to identify the parent menu or submenu.
 There are instances where you cannot avoid ambiguity in menu item references. In such
  instances, ABL always references the first unambiguous instance of the menu item. In
  particular, if the same submenu containing a menu item appears in more than one menu and
  each menu defines another instance of the same menu item, you can only reference that menu
  item in the submenu from the first menu that contains it. Thus, if submenu mOptions
  contains menu item mSave and the menus mFile and mDraw (in that order) both contain
  submenu mOptions and another menu item mSave, you can only reference menu item mSave in
  submenu mOptions from menu mFile. You cannot uniquely reference menu item mSave in submenu
  mOptions from menu mDraw because menu mDraw contains another menu item mSave.
• When a menu item is disabled, it appears grayed-out (if the
  environment supports that) and it cannot be chosen.

See also

Class-based data member access, CREATE widget statement, Trigger phrase




DELETE WIDGET-POOL statement

Deletes a defined widget pool, automatically deleting all widgets in the
pool.

Note: Does not apply to SpeedScript programming.

Syntax

pool-name: The name of a defined dynamic widget pool. If you omit pool-name,
    the statement deletes the unnamed pool most recently created in
    the current or a calling procedure or class-based method.

NO-ERROR: The NO-ERROR option is used to prevent the statement from raising ERROR and displaying error messages.

Example

The
following example creates a named widget pool and lets you add buttons
to it. When you choose Delete Buttons, the widget pool is deleted. (Therefore
all the buttons in the pool are also deleted.) Similarly, when you choose
Quit to exit the procedure the widget pool is also deleted. Because
the pool is persistent, it remains allocated for the rest of your
session if you do not delete it.

r-widpl.p

Notes

 If you do not delete a non-persistent widget pool, it is deleted
  when the procedure or method that created it ends. If you do not
  delete a persistent widget pool, it is deleted when the session
  ends.
 All named widget pools are globally scoped. While a named widget pool is
  allocated, any procedure or method within the same process can access that widget pool. If
  you try to delete a named widget pool that does not exist, the AVM raises the
  ERROR condition.

See also

CREATE WIDGET-POOL statement, DELETE WIDGET statement, NO-ERROR option




DELETE WIDGET statement

Deletes one or more dynamic widgets.

Syntax

handle: The handle of a dynamic widget.

Example

In
the following example, the DELETE WIDGET statements deletes the dynamic
button that you select:

r-delwid.p

Notes

 If
  you do not explicitly delete a dynamically created widget, it is deleted
  when its widget pool is deleted. If you do not create a new unnamed
  widget pool and do not explicitly specify a named widget pool when
  you create the widgets, all dynamic widgets are placed in the session pool.
  The session pool is not deleted until the ABL session that created
  it ends.
 If handle refers to a control-frame,
  any ActiveX control associated with the widget is also deleted. For more information on
  ActiveX support in ABL, see OpenEdge Programming
  Interfaces.
 For SpeedScript, use with buffer-field, buffer-object, buffer,
  and query-object handles.
 If handle refers to a dynamic query,
  the query will be closed before the query is deleted.

See also

CREATE widget statement




DISABLE statement

Disables input for one or more field-level
and child frame widgets within a frame that were previously enabled
with the ENABLE statement. Disabling a widget prevents the user
from providing input to the widget, but does not remove it from
the display.

Syntax

UNLESS-HIDDEN: Restricts DISABLE to fields whose HIDDEN attribute is FALSE.

ALL [ EXCEPT field... ]: Specifies that all field-level widgets for a frame should be
    disabled, except those that you optionally specify.

field [ WHEN expression ]: A field-level widget to be disabled. If you use the WHEN option, then
    the field is disabled only if expression is TRUE when
    the DISABLE statement is executed. The expression must
    evaluate to a LOGICAL value.

frame-phrase: The frame that contains the widgets to disable. If you omit frame-phrase,
    the default frame for the current block is assumed.

    You cannot
    use the IN WINDOW option of the frame phrase within a DISABLE statement.
    For more information on frame-phrase, see the Frame phrase reference
    entry.

Example

In
the following example, the CustNum field and the Quit
button are initially active. When you press GO in
the CustNum field, that field becomes disabled
and the Save and Undo buttons and the CreditLimit field
are enabled. If you choose either the Save or Undo button, those
buttons and the CreditLimit field are again disabled
and the CustNum field is enabled again.

r-enable.p

Notes

If you
invoke the DISABLE statement for the parent frame of a frame family,
the field representation widgets and descendant frames owned by
the parent frame are all disabled. However, the field representation
widgets of the descendant frames remain enabled and appear sensitive,
although they cannot accept input. To disable field representation
widgets in the descendant frames and make them appear insensitive,
you must invoke DISABLE statements for each of the descendant frames.

See also

ENABLE statement, WAIT-FOR statement (ABL only)




DISPLAY statement

Moves data to a screen buffer and displays the data on the screen or other output destination. The AVM uses frames to display data. A frame describes how constant and variable data is arranged for display and data entry. You can let ABL construct default frames or you can explicitly describe frames and their characteristics.

Data movement

Syntax

STREAM stream: Specifies the name of a stream. If you do not name a stream, the AVM
    uses the unnamed stream. See the DEFINE STREAM statement reference entry and
    the topics on alternate I/O sources in OpenEdge Programming
    Interfaces for more information on streams.

STREAM-HANDLE handle: Specifies the handle to a stream. If handle is not a valid handle to a stream, the AVM generates a run-time
    error. Note that stream handles are not valid for the unnamed streams. See the topics on
    alternate I/O sources in OpenEdge Programming Interfaces
    for more information on streams and stream handles.

UNLESS-HIDDEN: Restricts DISPLAY to fields whose
    HIDDEN attribute is FALSE.

expression: Identifies a constant, field name, variable name, or expression that
    results in the value you want to display. This can also be the built-in field name,
    proc-text, that returns a character string of column values from a row returned by a
    stored procedure proc-text-buffer.

    If expression is a simple field or variable, the AVM checks to see if that
    particular field or variable is used previously in the same frame. If it has, the AVM
    displays the field or variable in the same frame field as the earlier instance of that
    field or variable.

    In array fields, array elements with
    constant subscripts are treated just as any other field. Array fields with no
    subscripts are expanded as though you had typed in the implicit elements.

    Note: You cannot display elements of an indeterminate array parameter or
    variable with no size. You can use the EXTENT
    statement to set the number of elements in the array before displaying them. For more
    information, see the EXTENT statement reference entry.

    Note: You cannot
    display the whole array if the array is indeterminate, but you can display individual
    elements.

    If you reference a[i] in the same frame that you reference a or a[constant], a[i] overlays the
    appropriate frame field based on the value of i. It is displayed in a new frame field
    for a[i]. For example.

    r-arry.p

    Here, month-quota[i] is
    referenced in the same frame that month-quota is
    referenced. That is, line 5 references month-quota[i] and line 3 references month-quota. Both references use the same frame. Therefore, instead of
    creating a new frame field for month-quota[i], the
    AVM uses the same frame fields created for the entire month-quota array.

    In the next procedure, line 4
    references only elements 1 and 2. Therefore, when the AVM tries to overlay month-quota[i] in line 6, there is only room for elements
    1 and 2. The AVM returns an error after you enter data for those two elements.

    r-arry2.p

    The following example shows a solution to that
    problem:

    r-arry3.p

    If you explicitly reference a[ix] in a FORM statement, regular array
    fields (month-quota[1] and month-quota[2] in this example) are not overlaid.

format-phrase: Specifies one or more frame attributes for a field, variable,
    or expression. For more information on format-phrase,
    see the Format phrase reference entry.

aggregate-phrase: Identifies one or more aggregate values to be calculated optionally based
    on a change in a break group. This is the syntax for aggregate-phrase:

    For more information on aggregate-phrase, see
    the Aggregate phrase reference entry.

WHEN expression: Displays an item only when the expression used in the
    WHEN option has a value of TRUE. Here, expression is a field name, variable name, or expression whose value is
    logical.

@ base-field: The base-field must be the name of a field
    or variable; it cannot be an expression or constant. The field or
    variable must be viewed as a fill-in or text widget on the display.

    The
    AVM reserves enough space for the base-field to
    hold the longest format displayed there. All right-justified fields
    (numerics that do not use side labels) are right justified within
    the reserved area. The label is left or right justified according
    to the base-field. Whenever you enter data into
    the base-field, the AVM blanks out any characters
    to the left or right of the area used by the field being displayed.

    The
    AVM underlines a screen area that is the longer of the base-field and
    the overlaying field. However, you can enter as many characters
    as there are spaces in the format of the field.

    To determine
    the format to use for displaying the expression at the base-field,
    the AVM looks at the following and uses the first format that applies:

     An explicit FORMAT phrase used with the expression.
     If the expression is a character string constant, a format that
      accommodates that string.
     If the data type of the expression matches that of the base-field,
      the format of the base-field.
     The standard format of the expression as if it were displayed
      without a base-field.

SPACE [ (n) ]: Identifies the number (n) of blank spaces
    the AVM inserts after the displayed expression displays. The n can
    be 0. If the number of spaces is more than the spaces left on the
    current line of the frame, the AVM starts a new line and discards extra
    spaces. If you do not use this option or do not use n,
    the AVM inserts one space between items in the frame.

SKIP [ (n) ]: Identifies the number (n) of
    blank lines the AVM needs to insert after the expression is displayed. The n can be 0. If you do not use this option, the AVM does not
    skip a line between expressions unless the expressions do not fit on one line. If you
    use the SKIP option but do not specify n,
    or if n is 0, the AVM starts a new line
    unless it is already at the beginning of a new line.

IN WINDOW window: Identifies the window where the expression is displayed. The
    expression window must evaluate to the handle
    of a window.

frame-phrase: Specifies the overall layout and processing properties of a
    frame. For more information on frame-phrase,
    see the Frame phrase reference entry.

record: Identifies the name of the record you want to display. Naming a
    record is shorthand for listing each field individually. This can also be the built-in
    buffer name, proc-text-buffer, that returns each row retrieved by a stored procedure.

    To display a record in a table defined for multiple databases, you
    must qualify the record's table name with the database name. See the record definition in the Record phrase reference entry for
    more information.

EXCEPT field...: Indicates that the AVM displays all fields except those fields listed in the
    EXCEPT phrase.

WITH BROWSE browse: Indicates that the AVM displays the values into the current row of
    the specified browse widget.

    Note: DISPLAY...
    WITH BROWSE cannot be used with a dynamic browse. Instead, the user must
    set the browse column's SCREEN-VALUE attributes.

NO-ERROR: The NO-ERROR option is used to prevent the statement from raising ERROR and displaying error messages.

    The
    DISPLAY statement, with NO-ERROR
    in effect, may continue to execute even if it encounters an error resolving some part
    of an expression. This attempt to complete the operation may result in displaying the
    empty string at the location of the intended output.

Examples

This
procedure generates a hierarchical report of Customers (sorted by state
and name), the orders belonging to those Customers, and the order-lines belonging
to each order:

r-disp.p

This procedure lists each order, Customer information,
and the OrderLines for each Order. The procedure calculates an Order-value
for each of the OrderLines of an Order, and adds those values to
produce a total value for an entire Order.

r-disp2.p

The r-disp3.p procedure displays a
name and address list in a mailing label. The SKIP and
FORMAT options are used to produce a standard address format. The
WHEN option suppresses the display of the PostalCode field if there is no postal code value in the field.

r-disp3.p

Notes

 When
  ABL compiles a procedure, it uses a top-to-bottom pass of the procedure
  to design all the frames that procedure requires, adding field and
  related format attributes as it goes through the procedure.
 If you are displaying data that contains special control characters
  such as tabs, form feeds, or backspaces, be sure to use an EDITOR widget of the
  appropriate size for expression or base-field, or use the VIEW-AS EDITOR option
  from format-phrase in the DISPLAY
  statement. Otherwise, do not display data containing these characters.
 If you use a single qualified identifier with the
  DISPLAY statement, the Compiler first interprets the reference as
  dbname.table-name. If the Compiler cannot resolve
  the reference as dbname.table-name, it tries to
  resolve it as table-name.fieldname.
 If you invoke the DISPLAY statement for a frame, the
  AVM brings the frame into view unless the HIDDEN attribute for the frame
  or one of its ancestor frames or windows is TRUE.
 For more information on using the built-in field and buffer names,
  proc-text and proc-text-buffer in a DISPLAY statement,
  see the OpenEdge DataServer Guides (Use the Microsoft SQL Data
  Server and Use the Oracle Data Server).
 You cannot use the DISPLAY statement to display an
  object reference for a class instance directly. To display an object reference, you must
  first convert it using the INTEGER, INT64, or STRING function and display
  the result.

See also

ACCUM function, Aggregate phrase, DEFINE BROWSE statement, DEFINE FRAME statement, DOWN statement, EXPORT statement, FORM statement, Format phrase, Frame phrase, MESSAGE statement, NO-ERROR option, PAGE statement, PUT statement, PUT SCREEN statement, Stream object handle, UP statement, VIEW-AS phrase




DOWN statement

Positions the cursor on a new line in a down
or multi-line frame.

When the block specifying the down frame
iterates, the AVM automatically advances one frame line. Use the
DOWN statement if you want to move to a different display line at
any time.

For more information on down frames, see the DOWN
option of the Frame phrase.

Note: Does not apply to SpeedScript programming.

Syntax

STREAM stream: Specifies the name of a stream. If you do not name a stream, the AVM
    uses the unnamed stream. See the DEFINE STREAM statement reference entry and the
    "Alternate I/O Sources" topics in OpenEdge Programming
    Interfaces for more information on streams.

STREAM-HANDLE handle: Specifies the handle to a stream. If handle it is not a valid handle to a stream, the AVM generates a run-time
    error. Note that stream handles are not valid for the unnamed streams. See the topics on
    alternate I/O sources in OpenEdge Programming Interfaces
    for more information on streams and stream handles.

expression: The number of occurrences of data in the frame that you want
    to move down.

    DOWN is the same as DOWN 1, except for the following:

     Nothing happens until a data handling statement affects the screen.
     Several DOWN statements in a row with no intervening displays
      are treated as a single DOWN 1.

    DOWN 0 does nothing.
    If n is negative, the result is the same as UP ABS(n).

frame-phrase: Specifies the overall layout and processing properties of a
    frame. For more information on frame-phrase,
    see the Frame phrase reference entry.

Example

This
procedure prints a Customer report that is sorted by State, with
one line after the last Customer in each state:

r-down.p

Notes

 After
  displaying a down frame, the AVM automatically advances to the next
  frame line on each iteration of the block where the frame belongs.
  This is true whether or not you use the DOWN statement. If you do
  not want the AVM to advance automatically, name the frame outside of
  the block involved (the statement FORM WITH FRAME frame names
  a frame and scopes that frame to the higher block).
 When the AVM reaches the last frame line and encounters a DOWN statement,
  it clears the frame and starts at the top line of the frame, unless you
  used the SCROLL option on the frame. In that case, the AVM scrolls the
  frame up one iteration only, to make room for the next iteration.

See also

DEFINE STREAM statement, Frame phrase, SCROLL statement, Stream object handle, UP statement




EDITING phrase

Identifies the process that follows each keystroke during
a PROMPT-FOR, SET, or UPDATE statement.

This phrase is maintained
primarily for compatibility with Progress Version 6 or earlier.

Note: Does not apply to SpeedScript programming.

Syntax

statement: One or more statements you want to process, usually for each keystroke
    entered. In most cases, the first statement is READKEY.

Example

This
procedure lets you update the ix variable, and immediately
processes each of your keystrokes. The READKEY statement reads each
of the keys you press. The APPLY statement applies, or executes,
each keystroke. This is a very simple EDITING phrase and is the
same as entering UPDATE ix.

r-edit.p

The following r-edit2.p procedure uses an EDITING
phrase with an UPDATE statement to control what happens based on
each keystroke during the UPDATE. Here, the user can press any key
while updating any field except SalesRep.

While
in the SalesRep field, the user can press SPACEBAR to scroll through the
possible values for the SalesRep field. If the
user presses the TAB, BACKTAB, GO, RETURN, or END-ERROR key,
the procedure executes that key. If the user presses any other key
while in the SalesRep field, the terminal beeps.

r-edit2.p

Notes

 A
  READKEY statement does not have to be the first statement after
  the word EDITING. However, it should appear somewhere in the EDITING
  phrase because the AVM does not automatically read keystrokes when
  you use an EDITING phrase.
 The EDITING phrase applies to the PROMPT-FOR part of a SET or UPDATE
  statement. Therefore, to examine a value supplied by the user (within
  an EDITING phrase), you must use the INPUT function to refer to
  the field or variable that contains the value.
 When you use the NEXT statement in an EDITING phrase, the AVM executes
  the next iteration of that EDITING phrase and cancels any pending
  GO.
 When you use the LEAVE statement in an EDITING phrase, the AVM
  leaves the EDITING phrase and executes the assignment part of the SET
  or UPDATE statement.
 Within an EDITING phrase, you cannot use the CLEAR ALL, DOWN,
  or UP statements on the frame being edited.
 If you hide and redisplay a frame while you are in an EDITING
  block, the AVM might not redisplay it in the same location unless
  you specifically name the row and column of the frame. This could
  cause problems because the EDITING block does not recognize the
  new location, and attempts to update the fields at the old frame
  location.
 The EDITING phrase activates only for input from a terminal.
  If your input comes from an operating system file (set with the
  INPUT FROM statement), the EDITING phrase has no effect.
 The EDITING phrase is incompatible with event-driven programming.
  An EDITING block might interfere with other event handling statements.
• For more information on EDITING blocks and other ways of monitoring
  keystrokes, see OpenEdge Programming Interfaces.

See also

END statement, PROMPT-FOR statement, READKEY statement, SET statement, UPDATE statement




EDITOR phrase

Specifies that a field or variable is displayed
as a text editor widget. This is especially useful for long text
(CHARACTER and LONGCHAR) fields. The EDITOR phrase is an option
of the VIEW-AS phrase.

Syntax

size-phrase: Specifies the outer width and height of the text editor widget in characters or
    pixels. This is the syntax for size-phrase:

    For more information, see the SIZE phrase reference entry.

INNER-CHARS chars INNER-LINES lines: Specifies the number of characters visible in each line of the
    Editor and the number of lines visible within the Editor. Both chars and lines must
    be integer constants.

    Note that the values you supply for INNER-CHARS
    and INNER-LINES specify only the size of the editing area, not the
    overall size of the editor widget. The overall size is determined
    by the size of the editing area plus the sizes of the margin and
    border heights and widths.

BUFFER-CHARS chars: In character mode, specifies the number of characters a user
    can enter on each line. When the last character is typed, the text
    input cursor automatically wraps to the next line. This option is
    ignored in graphical environments.

    The chars value
    must be an integer constant that is equal to or greater than the
    value specified by SIZE width or INNER-CHARS chars.
    If greater, horizontal scrolling is enabled. The default is the
    value specified by SIZE width or INNER-CHARS chars.

BUFFER-LINES lines: In character mode, specifies the number of lines a user can
    enter. By default, ABL does not limit the number of lines (although
    system limits might apply). This option is ignored in graphical
    environments.

    The lines value must be an integer
    constant that is equal to or greater than the value specified by
    BY height or INNER-LINES lines.
    If equal, vertical scrolling is disabled.

LARGE: Specifies that ABL use a large editor widget rather than a normal editor
    widget in Windows. A normal Windows editor can contain up to 20K
    of data. The LARGE option allows the editor to contain data up to
    the limit of your system resources. However, it also consumes more
    internal resources and lacks some functionality. Use the LARGE option
    only if you have to edit very large sections of text. The LARGE
    option applies only to Windows; other interfaces allow for larger
    editors by default. This option is ignored in those other interfaces.

MAX-CHARS characters: The maximum number of characters that can be displayed or entered
    within the text editor widget. The value characters must
    be an integer constant. By default, ABL does not limit the number
    of characters (although system limits might apply).

NO-BOX: Specifies that the editor be displayed without a border. The
    default is to display the editor with a border. The NO-BOX option
    has no effect on the size of the editor.

NO-WORD-WRAP: Specifies that word wrap be disabled within the text editor
    widget. If you enable word wrap, horizontal scrolling is disabled.
    This option is ignored in character mode. This is the default with
    the LARGE option.

SCROLLBAR-HORIZONTAL: Specifies that horizontal scrolling is enabled and a horizontal
    scroll bar is displayed for the widget.

SCROLLBAR-VERTICAL: Specifies that a vertical scroll bar is display for the widget.
    Although vertical scrolling is always enabled within a text editor
    widget, a vertical scroll bar is displayed only if you specify this
    option.

TOOLTIP tooltip: Allows you to define a help text message for a text field or
    text variable. The AVM automatically displays this text when the
    user pauses the mouse button over a text field or text variable
    for which a tooltip is defined.

    You can add or change the TOOLTIP
    option at any time. If TOOLTIP is set to "" or the Unknown value (?),
    then the tooltip is removed. No tooltip is the default. The TOOLTIP
    option is supported in Windows only.

Example

The
following example uses two editor widgets. The Item.CatDescription field
is viewed as an EDITOR in the item-info frame and the variable myclipbd is viewed
as an EDITOR in the clip frame. Use the EDITOR functions provided
by your interface environment to copy text from CatDescription into
my\clipbd. You can then subsequently copy that text into the CatDescription field
of another item.

r-vaedit.p

Notes

 If
  you specify the SCROLLBAR-VERTICAL option in, a vertical scroll
  bar appears on the side of the Editor. The user can then use the
  scroll bar to scroll within the widget. Whether or not you specify SCROLLBAR-VERTICAL,
  the user can scroll vertically by using the up and down arrow keys
  to move above or below the displayed text.
 If you use the SIZE phrase to specify the dimensions of the
  Editor, the AVM uses a portion of this overall space (thereby shrinking
  the size of the editing area) for any scroll bars you specify. Use
  the INNER-CHARS and INNER-LINES options if you want a fixed size
  for the editing area, regardless of the presence of scroll bars.
 In Windows, the editor widget supports lines of up to 255 characters only.
 By default, the editor widget supports text wrap. This means
  that when you reach the end of a line within the widget, text wraps
  to the next line rather than scrolling to the right. In graphical
  interfaces, you can enable horizontal scrolling by specifying either
  the NO-WORD-WRAP or SCROLLBAR-HORIZONTAL options. If you specify SCROLLBAR-HORIZONTAL,
  a horizontal scroll bar appears. If you specify NO-WORD-WRAP, but
  not SCROLLBAR-HORIZONTAL, the user can scroll horizontally by using
  the left and right arrow keys at the edge of the displayed text.
 Windows allows a user to transfer focus to the editor by pressing ALT and one of the letters in the
  label. This is called a mnemonic.
 The character-mode editor does not support the tab character.
  When the AVM reads a file that contains tabs into an editor widget,
  it replaces the tabs with eight spaces. When it writes the file,
  the tabs are not restored and the file is permanently changed.
 When you specify the LARGE option, the following attributes
  and methods no longer apply to the editor:
• CONVERT-TO-OFFSET
    method
• CURSOR-OFFSET attribute
• LENGTH attribute
• MAX-CHARS attribute
• SELECTION-END attribute
• SELECTION-START attribute
• SET-SELECTION method
• WORD-WRAP attribute
 For SpeedScript, the only valid options are: size-phrase,
  INNER-CHARS, INNER-LINES, MAX-CHARS, NO-BOX, NO-WORD-WRAP.

See also

SIZE phrase, VIEW-AS phrase




ENABLE statement

Enables input for one or more field-level and
child frame widgets within a frame.

Data movement

Syntax

ALL [ EXCEPT field...]: Specifies that all field-level widgets for a frame are enabled,
    except those you list.

UNLESS-HIDDEN: Restricts ENABLE to fields whose HIDDEN attribute is FALSE.

field: Specifies the name of the field, variable, or widget you want to
    enable. Remember that the ENABLE statement accepts input only and stores it in the
    screen buffer. The underlying record buffer of a field or variable is unaffected unless
    you ASSIGN the value.

    In array fields, array elements with constant
    subscripts are treated just like any other field. Array fields with no subscripts or
    array fields in the FORM statement are expanded as though you had entered the implicit
    elements. See the DISPLAY statement
    reference entry for information on how array fields with expressions as subscripts are
    handled.

    Note: You cannot enable indeterminate array variables with no
    size.

format-phrase: Specifies one or more frame attributes for a field, variable,
    or expression. For more information on format-phrase,
    see the Format phrase reference entry.

WHEN expression: Enables the field only if expression has a value of TRUE when the
    ENABLE statement is executed. Here, expression is a field name,
    variable name, or expression that evaluates to a LOGICAL value.

TEXT: Defines a group of character fields or variables (including
    array elements) to use automatic text-wrap. The TEXT option works
    only with character fields. When you insert data in the middle of
    a TEXT field, the AVM wraps data that follows into the next TEXT
    field, if necessary. If you delete data from the middle of a TEXT
    field, the AVM wraps data that follows into the empty area.

    If
    you enter more characters than the format for the field allows,
    the AVM discards the extra characters. The character fields must
    have formats in the form x(n). A blank in the first column of a
    line marks the beginning of a paragraph. Lines within a paragraph
    are treated as a group and will not wrap into other paragraphs.

constant [ AT n | TO n ] [ BGCOLOR expression ] [ DCOLOR expression ] [ FGCOLOR expression ] [ FONT expression ] [ PFCOLOR expression ] [ VIEW-AS TEXT ]: Specifies a constant (literal) value that you want displayed in the frame. If you use
    the AT option, n is the column in which you want to start the
    display. If you use the TO option, n is the column in which you want
    to end the display. You can use the BGCOLOR and FGCOLOR options in graphical interfaces
    to define the foreground and background colors to use when the constant is displayed.
    Similarly, you can use the DCOLOR and PFCOLOR options in character interfaces to define
    the prompt and display colors to use when the constant is displayed. The font option,
    for both character and graphical interfaces, defines the font used. If you use the
    VIEW-AS TEXT option, the constant is displayed as a text widget rather than a fill-in
    field.

SPACE [ (n) ]: Identifies the number (n) of blank spaces to insert after the field
    displays. The n can be 0. If the number of spaces you specify is more
    than the spaces left on the current line of the frame, the AVM starts a new line and
    discards any extra spaces. If you do not use this option or n, the
    AVM inserts one space between items in the frame.

SKIP [ (n) ]: Identifies the number (n) of blank lines to insert after the field
    is displays. The n can be 0. If you do not use this option, the AVM
    does not skip a line between expressions unless the expressions do not fit on one line.
    If you use the SKIP option, but do not specify n, or if
    n is 0, the AVM starts a new line unless it is already at the
    beginning of a new line.

^: Tells the AVM to ignore an input field when input is being read from a file.

IN WINDOW window: Specifies the window in which the widgets are enabled. The window parameter
    must be the name of a currently defined window or an expression
    that evaluates to the handle for a currently defined window.

frame-phrase: The frame that contains the widgets to enable. If you omit frame-phrase,
    the default frame for the current block is assumed. For more information
    on frame-phrase, see the Frame phrase reference
    entry.

Example

The
following example enables the CustNum field and the
Quit button in the main procedure. If you press GO in the CustNum field
and successfully find a record, the trigger disables the CustNum field
and enables the CreditLimit field and the Save
and Undo buttons. If you choose Save or Undo, the CHOOSE trigger
disables the buttons and enables the CustNum field
again. Note that if you choose the Save button, the trigger must
execute an ASSIGN statement to set the value in the underlying database
field.

r-enable.p

Notes

 For
  field representation widgets, the ENABLE statement lets you change
  the widget's SCREEN-VALUE. If you want to save changes to the field
  itself, you must subsequently use the ASSIGN statement.

  During
  data entry, a validation expression defined for the field in the database
  or in a Format phrase executes only if the widget associated with the
  field receives input focus. Use the VALIDATE() method
  to execute a validation expression defined for a field regardless
  of whether it receives input focus or not.
 If you invoke the ENABLE statement for a frame, the AVM brings
  the frame into view unless the HIDDEN attribute for the frame or
  one of its ancestor frames or windows is TRUE.
 If you invoke the ENABLE statement for the parent frame of a
  frame family, the field representation widgets and descendant frames
  owned by the parent frame are all enabled. However, the field representation
  widgets of the descendant frames remain disabled and visually insensitive.
  To enable field representation widgets in the descendant frames
  and make them sensitive, you must invoke ENABLE statements for each
  of the descendant frames.
 If you specify the KEEP-TAB-ORDER option for a frame, the ENABLE
  statement has no affect on the tab order for the frame. Otherwise,
  the ENABLE statement can affect the tab order of widgets within
  the frame.
 The tab order for fields specified by the ENABLE statement replaces any
  conflicting tab order established by previous ENABLE statements
  or by previous settings of the FIRST-TAB-ITEM, LAST-TAB-ITEM, MOVE-AFTER-TAB-ITEM,
  or MOVE-BEFORE-TAB-ITEM attributes and methods.
 If you specify the ALL option with the ENABLE statement, the
  tab order of fields corresponds to the order they are specified
  in the frame definition. Also, the Data Dictionary field validations
  and help messages are compiled for all fields in the frame, including
  view-only fields (for example, text widgets).
 If you specify the ENABLE statement with field parameters, the
  specified fields are moved in the tab order to the end of the order specified for the
  original frame definition, and the tab order of each field corresponds
  to the order in which it is specified in the statement. The following code enables three
  widgets (a, b, and c) in frame A with the tab order d, e, f, a, b, and c:

  Note: Note that widgets d, e, and f are not accessible until their
  SENSITIVE attributes are set to TRUE.
 If you use more than one ENABLE statement to enable widgets
  within a frame, each widget is added to the end of the tab order
  as it is enabled. For example, the following code enables three
  widgets in a frame:

  This code sets the tab order as a b c. Rearranging
  the ENABLE statements changes the tab order.
• For SpeedScript, these options are invalid: BGCOLOR, DCOLOR, FGCOLOR,
  FONT, IN-WINDOW.

See also

DISABLE statement, WAIT-FOR statement (ABL only)




ENTERED function

Checks whether a frame field has been modified during
the last INSERT, PROMPT-FOR, SET, or UPDATE statement for that field,
and returns a TRUE or FALSE result.

Note: Does
not apply to SpeedScript programming.

Syntax

[ FRAME frame ] field: The name of the frame field you are checking. If you omit the FRAME
    option, the field name must be unambiguous.

Example

This
procedure goes through the Customer table and prompts the user for a
new CreditLimit value. The ENTERED function tests
the value the user enters. If the user enters a new value, the procedure displays
the old and new CreditLimit values. If the user enters
the same or no value, the value does not change.

r-enter.p

Notes

 If
  you type blanks in a field where data has never been displayed, the
  ENTERED function returns FALSE, a SET or ASSIGN statement does not
  update the underlying field or variable. Also, if the AVM has marked a
  field as entered, and the PROMPT-FOR statement prompts for the field again
  and you do not enter any data, the AVM no longer considers the field
  entered.
 If you have changed the field's window value since the last
  INSERT, PROMPT-FOR, SET, or UPDATE statement on that field, the
  ENTERED function returns FALSE. For example, if you use the DISPLAY
  statement to change the value of the field, ENTERED no longer returns
  TRUE.
• Before referencing a widget with the ENTERED function, you must scope
  the frame that contains that widget. For example, the following
  code does not compile:

  The DEFINE FRAME statement does not scope the
  frame. Therefore, the reference to the ENTERED function in the trigger
  cannot be evaluated. To fix the problem, reference the frame in
  a DISPLAY statement before the ON statement.

See also

NOT ENTERED function




Format phrase

Specifies one or more attributes for a widget.

Syntax

at-phrase: The column, row and column, or x and y pixel location you want the
    display to start. The AT option does not left justify the data; it
    simply indicates the placement of the data area.

    See the AT phrase reference
    entry for more information.

AS datatype: Creates a frame field and variable with the data type you specify.
    This is useful for defining display positions in a frame for use with DISPLAY @
    field.

LIKE field: Creates a frame field and variable with the same definition
    as field.

    The LIKE option in a DEFINE
    VARIABLE statement, DEFINE WORK-TABLE statement, or Format
    phrase requires that a particular database is connected. Since you can start up an ABL
    application session without connecting to a database, use the LIKE
    option with caution.

AUTO-RETURN: Causes the AVM to automatically move out of a field as if
    you pressed RETURN. When you enter
    the last character in the field, the AVM automatically moves out
    of the field. If this happens on the last field of a data entry
    statement, the AVM functions as if you pressed GO.

    For the purposes of AUTO-RETURN, entering leading
    zeros in a numeric field does not count as filling the field. For example, suppose you
    define a numeric field as follows:

    If you enter a 09 into the field, the AVM does not
    AUTO-RETURN. To get the AUTO-RETURN behavior in
    this situation, define the field as CHARACTER with a format of
    "99".

BGCOLOR expression: Specifies the background color of the widget in graphical interfaces. This
    option is ignored in character interfaces.

BLANK: Displays blanks for the field you are displaying or entering.
    This is useful for entering passwords.

COLON n: The number (n) of the column in
    which you want the colon of the label to appear. Use this option with
    SIDE-LABEL frames where the labels are placed to the left of the
    data and are separated from the data with a colon. For code compiled with the -nocolon startup parameter in effect, the last character
    in the label appears in the specified column. See the Startup
    Command and Parameter Reference for more information on -nocolon.

TO n: The number (n) of the column in
    which you want to end the display. The TO option does not right justify
    the data; it indicates the placement of the data area.

COLUMN-LABEL label: Names the label you want to display above the field. If you want the
    label to use more than one line (stacked labels), use an exclamation point
    (!) in the label to indicate where to break the line. For
    example:

    r-colbl.p

    The AVM does not display column labels if you use the
    SIDE-LABELS or the NO-LABELS option with the Frame
    phrase.

    You must enclose the label string in quotation marks. If you want to
    use the exclamation point (!) as one of the characters in a column
    label, use two exclamation points (!!).

DEBLANK: Removes leading blanks (for use on input character fields only). Leading
    blanks in the value before input are not removed unless the user changes
    the value.

DCOLOR expression: Specifies the display color of the widget in character interfaces.
    This attribute is ignored in graphical interfaces.

DISABLE-AUTO-ZAP: Specifies whether the value of the AUTO-ZAP
    attribute will be ignored. See the AUTO-ZAP attribute reference entry.
    This option only applies to fill-ins.

    The following example defines a frame with two fill-ins, both of
    which specify the DISABLE-AUTO-ZAP option:

FGCOLOR expression: Specifies the foreground color of the widget in graphical interfaces. This
    option is ignored in character interfaces.

FONT expression: Specifies the font of the widget.

FORMAT string: Represents the format in which you want to display the expression. You must enclose string in quotation marks
    (""). If you do not use the FORMAT option, ABL
    uses the defaults shown in the following table.

    Table 1. Default
    display formats

    The following table lists the default formats
    for the Other expression.

    Table 2. Default data type display formats

    You can use the FORMAT option with the
    UPDATE and SET statements to store a character
    string that is longer than the field length you define in the Data Dictionary or in a
    DEFINE VARIABLE statement. This is possible because ABL stores data
    in variable-length fields.

    You can also use the ASSIGN statement to store data
    in a field or variable that is longer than the predefined format of that field or
    variable.

    However, the Data Dictionary load program only loads character data
    that is no longer than the format you defined in the
    Dictionary. For more information on data formats, see Develop
    ABL Applications.

HELP string: Represents a character string that you want to display whenever the
    user enters the frame field for the field or variable. When the user leaves the frame
    field, the AVM removes the help string from the message area. You must enclose the
    string in quotation marks ("").

    If the input source is not the terminal, the AVM disregards any
    HELP options.

LABEL label[, label]...: Represents a character string that you want to use as a label for a
    field, variable, or expression. You must enclose the string in quotation marks
    (""). The following table shows the order ABL uses to determine the
    label for a field, variable, or expression.

    Table 3. Determining labels

    Note: If you use side labels, Windows allows a user to transfer focus to
    field-level widgets by pressing ALT and
    one of the letters in the widget's label. This is called a mnemonic. Specify the
    letter by preceding it with an ampersand (&) when specifying the
    LABEL option. Ending a label with an ampersand might produce
    undesired behavior. If you want a literal ampersand within a label, enter two
    ampersands (&&) in label.
    If you specify more than one widget with the same mnemonic, the AVM transfers focus to
    each of these in tab order when you make a selection.

NO-LABELS: Prevents the AVM from displaying a label for a field, variable,
    or expression.

NO-TAB-STOP: Specifies that the widget is not in its parent frame's tab
    order.

    The following example shows defining a frame with two fill-ins, both
    of which have the NO-TAB-STOP option specified:

    See the TAB-STOP attribute reference entry
    for related information.

PFCOLOR expression: Specifies the prompt color of the widget in character interfaces.
    This attribute is ignored in graphical interfaces.

VALIDATE (condition, msg-expression): Specifies a value that you want to validate against the data entered
    into a screen field or variable. The condition is
    a Boolean expression (a constant, field name, variable name, or
    expression) whose value is TRUE or FALSE.

    When you use the VALIDATE option to validate a
    specific field, any reference to that field in condition6 is assumed to be an input field. For example, in the following
    statement, the AVM assumes the PromiseDate field is
    an input field:

    The previous statement is equivalent to the
    following statement:

    The validation is based on the value of OrderDate prior to the SET statement. If you want to
    validate the value of PromiseDate against the input
    value of OrderDate, use this statement:

    If you try to validate a field whose reference
    is ambiguous, the AVM tries to resolve the ambiguity by referencing
    the table that contains the record being updated. In the following
    example, the SalesRep field is ambiguous because
    it exists in both the Order table and the Customer table. The AVM
    resolves the ambiguity by validating the SalesRep field
    in the Order table, since the Order table is being updated.

    If the reference is to an array field and has
    no subscript, the AVM assumes you want to use the subscript of the
    field that is being prompted.

    If the value of condition is
    FALSE, use msg-expression to display a specific
    message. You must enclose msg-expression in
    quotation marks (" ").

    The AVM processes validation criteria whenever the user attempts to
    leave the frame field. If the frame field value is not valid, the AVM displays
    msg-expression in the message area, causes the
    terminal to beep, and does not advance out of the frame field.

    If you tab a frame field, make no changes, and leave the field, the
    AVM does not process the validation criteria specified with the
    VALIDATE option until the you press GO
    (F1). If you press ENDKEY or
    END-ERROR, or an error occurs, the AVM does not test the
    validation criteria specified with the VALIDATE option.

    If the input source for the procedure is a table, the AVM validates
    each input field (except those with a value of "-"). If the result of
    the validation is FALSE, msg-expression is
    displayed and the AVM treats the validation as an error.

    To suppress the Data Dictionary validation criteria for a field, use
    this VALIDATE option:

    When you use the VALIDATE option in a procedure to
    specify validation criteria for a field, that validation criteria applies to all other
    references to that field in the same frame:

    In this example, the AVM applies the validation criteria on the
    second UPDATE statement. The AVM also applies the validation criteria
    to the first UPDATE statement because both UPDATE
    statements use the same frame. Scope references to the same field to different frames
    if you do not want a VALIDATE option to affect all references to that
    field.

view-as-phrase: Specifies the type of widget. This is the syntax for
    view-as-phrase:

    For more information on view-as-phrase,
    see the VIEW-AS phrase reference entry.

WIDGET-ID id-number: Specifies a widget ID for a field or variable widget to display
    in a frame. The value of id-number must be an
    expression that evaluates to an even integer value between 2 and
    65534, inclusive, and must be unique across all widget IDs in the
    window or dialog box.

    If you specify an invalid ID, the compiler
    displays an error message. This option is supported in graphical
    interfaces only, and only in Windows.

Example

This
procedure lets the user update Customer records after entering the password
"secret." The format phrase on the Phone field describes
the display format of that field.

r-frmat.p

Notes

 If you have enabled application-defined widget IDs in your ABL GUI
  application, by specifying the Use Widget ID (-usewidgetid) startup parameter, then the AVM uses the value specified in the
  WIDGET-ID option to set the WIDGET-ID attribute for this widget when it
  creates the widget at run time, instead of using the widget ID it normally generates by
  default. If you have not enabled application-defined widget IDs, then the AVM ignores this
  option setting at run time.

  For more information about the
  WIDGET-ID attribute, see its reference entry in the Handle Attributes and Methods Reference. For
  more information about the Use Widget ID (-usewidgetid) startup parameter, see Startup Command
  and Parameter Reference.
 For SpeedScript, these options are invalid: BGCOLOR,
  DCOLOR, FGCOLOR, FONT,
  PFCOLOR, view-as-phrase.
• With respect to internationalization, some double-byte and UTF-8
  multi-byte characters display and print in one or two columns. Each unit in the format
  string represents one physical column. To display or print a character that requires two
  columns, the FORMAT phrase must specify two columns. For more
  information, see Internationalize ABL Applications.

See also

FORM statement, Frame phrase




FORM statement

Defines the layout and certain processing attributes of a frame for use within a single procedure. If the frame has not been previously scoped, the FORM statement scopes it to the current block. Use the FORM statement if you want to describe a frame in a single statement rather than let ABL construct the frame based on individual data handling statements in a block. You can use the FORM statement to describe a layout for a data iteration and the frame header or background.

Syntax

form-item: Specifies a field-level widget or value to display in the
    frame, or a SPACE or SKIP directive. The data specified by all form
    items are owned by a single field group, duplicated for each data
    iteration in the frame.

    This is the syntax for form-item:

    field: A reference to a field or variable to be displayed in the frame.
        This value cannot be an expression or a frame. To specify a child
        frame, you must first define the parent and child frames, then assign
        the FRAME attribute of the child frame to the handle of the parent
        frame. The child frame is assigned to the same field group as other
        form items.

    format-phrase: Specifies one or more frame attributes for a field or variable.
        For more information on format-phrase, see the Format phrase reference entry.

    constant: A constant value.

    at-phrase: Specifies the location of a value within the frame. The AT
        phrase does not left justify the data; it simply indicates the placement
        of the data area. This is the syntax for the AT phrase:

        For more information, see the AT phrase reference
        entry.

    TO n: The number (n) of the column in which you want
        the display to end. The TO option does not right justify the data;
        it simply indicates the placement of the data area.

    BGCOLOR expression: Specifies the background color of the form item in graphical
        interfaces. This option is ignored in character interfaces.

    DCOLOR expression: Specifies the display color of the form item in character interfaces. This
        option is ignored in graphical interfaces.

    FGCOLOR expression: Specifies the foreground color of the form item in graphical
        interfaces. This option is ignored in character interfaces.

    FONT expression: Specifies the font of the form item.

    PFCOLOR expression: Specifies the prompt color of the form item in character interfaces. This
        option is ignored in graphical interfaces.

    VIEW-AS TEXT: Specifies that the form item be displayed as a TEXT widget rather than
        as a FILL-IN widget.

    WIDGET-ID id-number: Specifies a widget ID for a field-level widget or value to
        display in a frame. The value of id-number must
        be an expression that evaluates to an even integer value between
        2 and 65534, inclusive, and must be unique across all widget IDs
        in the window or dialog box.

        If you specify an invalid ID,
        the compiler displays an error message. This option is supported
        in graphical interfaces only, and only in Windows.

    SPACE (n): Identifies the number (n) of blank spaces
        to insert after the displayed expression. The n can
        be 0. If the number of spaces you specify is more than the spaces
        left on the current line of the frame, the AVM starts a new line
        and discards extra spaces. If you do not use this option or you
        do not use n, the AVM inserts one space between
        items in the frame.

    SKIP (n): Identifies the number (n) of blank lines
        to insert after the displayed expression. The number of blank lines
        can be can be 0. If you do not use this option, the AVM does not
        skip a line between expressions unless the expressions do not fit
        on one line. If you use the SKIP option but do not specify n, or
        if n is 0, the AVM starts a new line unless it
        is already at the beginning of a new line.

record: Represents the name of the record you want to display. Naming
    a record is shorthand for listing each field individually, as a
    form item.

EXCEPT field...: Tells the AVM to display all the fields in the frame except
    those fields listed in the EXCEPT phrase.

HEADER: Tells the AVM to place the following items in a header section at
    the top of the frame in a separate field group from all other data.
    In addition to fields, variables, and constants, the frame header
    can contain expressions, images, and rectangles. The AVM reevaluates
    these expressions each time it displays the frame.

    When you
    use the FORM statement with the HEADER option, ABL disregards Data
    Dictionary field labels for fields you name in the FORM statement.
    Use character strings to specify labels for fields you name in the frame
    header.

BACKGROUND: Specifies that any following frame items display in the frame
    background, behind the data and header in a separate field group.
    Typically, this option is used to display images or rectangles behind
    the data.

head-item: A description of a value to be displayed in the frame header
    or background, or a SPACE or SKIP directive. This is the syntax
    for head-item:

    This is exactly the same as the syntax for a form-item,
    except that a head-item can be an expression
    and does not include the PFCOLOR option. If you use an expression
    in a HEADER or BACKGROUND phrase, the expression is evaluated each
    time the frame is viewed. If you give the PAGE-TOP or PAGE-BOTTOM
    option for the frame, the expression is evaluated for each page.
    This allows you, for example, to include a reference to the PAGE-NUMBER
    function in the frame header.

    Note: If head-item is
    an expression, any option of the format-phrase may
    be used with it; if head-item is a constant,
    only the AT phrase, TO, BGCOLOR, DCOLOR, FGCOLOR, FONT, VIEW-AS
    TEXT, and WIDGET-ID options are allowed.

frame-phrase: Specifies frame options for the frame associated with the FORM statement.
    For more information on frame-phrase options,
    see the Frame phrase reference entry.

Examples

This
procedure lets the user update information on a specific Customer. The
FORM statement describes a very specific layout for the UPDATE statement
to use.

r-form.p

When you use the FORM statement to control the
order in which fields appear on the screen, remember that this order
is independent of the order in which the AVM processes the fields
during data entry.

In the example, the above FORM statement
displays the customer name first and the phone number second. But
the UPDATE statement specifies the phone number after the name,
address, city, state, and postal-code. The fields are displayed
as described in the FORM statement, but the tab order is determined
by the UPDATE statement.

The following example uses the HEADER
option:

r-eval.p

The FORM statement defines a HEADER frame that
consists of the text "This is the header - ix is" and the value
of the variable ix. In addition, it also specifies a screen location
where the header is displayed. The FORM statement does not bring
the header frame into view.

On the first iteration of the
DO block, the DISPLAY statement brings the frame into view. On the
second iteration of the DO block, the frame is already in view (it
was not hidden during the first iteration), so the header of the
frame is not re-evaluated. Thus, the new value of ix is not reflected
in the header portion of the frame, and you do not see the new value
of ix in the header. You also do not see the position of the frame
on the screen change.

In contrast, look at this modified
version of the procedure:

r-eval2.p

On the first iteration of the DO block, the
DISPLAY statement displays the frame. The HIDE statement removes
the frame from the window. Therefore, on the second iteration of
the DO block, the DISPLAY statement redisplays the frame. The AVM
re-evaluates the header of the frame each time the frame is redisplayed.
Therefore, the header of the frame reflects the change to i, and
the position of the frame in the window also changes.

Notes

 When you use any of the statements that access the screen, you can name
  a frame or use the default frame for the block where the statements appears.
 When ABL compiles a procedure, it makes a top-to-bottom pass
  of the procedure to design all the frames for that procedure, including
  those referenced in FORM statements. ABL adds field and format attributes
  as it goes through the procedure.
 If you have enabled application-defined widget IDs in your ABL GUI
  application, by specifying the Use Widget ID (-usewidgetid) startup parameter, then the AVM uses the value specified in the
  WIDGET-ID option to set the WIDGET-ID attribute for this widget when it creates the widget at run time, instead of
  using the widget ID it normally generates by default. If you have not enabled
  application-defined widget IDs, then the AVM ignores this option setting at run time.

  For more information about the WIDGET-ID attribute, see its reference
  entry in the Handle Attributes and Methods Reference. For more information about the Use Widget ID (-usewidgetid) startup parameter, see Startup Command and Parameter Reference.
 If you use a single qualified identifier with the FORM statement,
  the compiler first interprets the reference as dbname.tablename.
  If the compiler cannot resolve the reference as dbname.tablename,
  it tries to resolve it as tablename.fieldname.
  When naming fields in a FORM statement, you must use table names
  that are different from field names to avoid ambiguous references.
  See the Record phrase reference
  entry for more information.
 To use the FORM statement to display a record in a table defined for
  multiple databases, you must qualify the record's table name with the database name. See
  the record definition in the Record phrase reference entry for more
  information.
 If you define a frame to use as a DDE frame, you must realize the frame
  (display it) before using it as a conversation end-point. If you want the DDE frame to
  remain invisible during its use in a DDE conversation, set its HIDDEN attribute to TRUE
  after realizing the frame. For information on DDE frames, see OpenEdge Programming Interfaces.

See also

DEFINE FRAME statement, Format phrase, Frame phrase




FRAME-COL function

Returns a DECIMAL value that is the column
position of the left corner of a frame within its window.

Note: Does not apply to SpeedScript programming.

Syntax

frame: The name of the frame whose column position you are trying to determine.
    If you do not supply a frame name, the FRAME-COL function uses the
    default frame for the block it is in. If the FRAME-COL function is
    in a DO block, the function uses the default frame scoped to the
    block containing the DO block.

Example

This
procedure displays Customer information in one frame, then displays Order
information in an overlay frame. FRAME-ROW places the overlay frame on
the ninth row of the second column. FRAME-COL places the overlay
frame on the first column of the first frame.

r-frcol.p

Notes

 The
  FRAME-COL function returns a value of 0 if the frame you specify
  is not in view when the AVM evaluates the function.
 To convert the decimal value returned by FRAME-COL to an integer value,
  use the INTEGER function.

See also

Frame phrase, FRAME-DOWN function, FRAME-LINE function, FRAME-ROW function, INTEGER function




FRAME-DB function

Returns the logical database name of the database
that contains any field in which the user-interface cursor is entered.

Note: Does not apply to SpeedScript programming.

Syntax

The function requires no arguments. If the cursor
is in a field that is not a database field, this function returns
no value for the field.

Example

For
each field being updated, this procedure displays the field name,
the table the field belongs to, and the database in which the table
exists. The EDITING phrase is part of the UPDATE statement; it displays
information on the field as you update the record, and then reads
each of the keystrokes entered (READKEY) and applies those keystrokes
(APPLY LASTKEY).

r-frdb.p

Notes

 If
  the cursor is not in an enabled input field when the last input statement
  is executed, or the input field is not associated with a database field,
  FRAME-DB returns an empty string.
 Use this syntax to find the name of a schema holder for a non-OpenEdge database:

See also

DBCODEPAGE function, DBCOLLATION function, FRAME-FIELD function, FRAME-FILE function, FRAME-INDEX function, LDBNAME function, PROGRAM-NAME function, SDBNAME function




FRAME-DOWN function

Returns an INTEGER value that represents the number
of iterations in a frame.

Note: Does not apply
to SpeedScript programming.

Syntax

frame: The name of the frame whose number down you are trying to determine.
    If you do not supply a frame name, the FRAME-DOWN function uses
    the default frame for the block it is in. If the FRAME-DOWN function
    is in a DO block, the function uses the default frame scoped to
    the block containing the DO block.

Example

This
procedure displays Customers in a frame. When the frame is full,
the procedure prompts "Do you want to see the next page?" The procedure
recognizes that the frame is full when the value of FRAME-LINE (current
logical line number) equals the value of FRAME-DOWN (number of iterations
in the frame).

r-frdown.p

Note

The FRAME-DOWN
function returns a value of 0 if used with a single frame or if
the frame is not in view when the function is evaluated.

See also

Frame phrase, FRAME-COL function, FRAME-LINE function, FRAME-ROW function




FRAME-FIELD function

During a data entry statement, returns the
name of the input field the cursor is in. At other times, returns
the name of the input field the cursor was last in.

The FRAME-FIELD
function is particularly useful if you want to provide the user
with help for the input field being used.

Note: Does
not apply to SpeedScript programming.

Syntax

Example

For
each field the user is updating, this procedure displays the name
of the field, the table the field belongs to, and the value currently
in the field. The EDITING phrase is part of the UPDATE statement;
it displays information on the field as the user updates the record,
and then reads each of the keystrokes entered (READKEY) and applies
those keystrokes (APPLY LASTKEY).

r-frfld.p

Notes

 If
  the current or last input field is an array, FRAME-FIELD returns
  the name of the field but does not indicate the array element that the
  input field represents. To display the array element, use the FRAME-INDEX
  function.
 If the cursor was not in an enabled input field when the last
  input statement ended, FRAME-FIELD returns an empty string.

See also

FRAME-FILE function, FRAME-INDEX function, FRAME-VALUE function, PROGRAM-NAME function




FRAME-FILE function

Returns the name of the database table that
contains the field the cursor is in. The FRAME-FILE function is
useful if you want to provide users with context-sensitive help.

Note: Does not apply to SpeedScript programming.

Syntax

Example

This
procedure updates fields from the Order table and the Customer table. It
uses the FRAME-FILE function to tell you which table contains the
field being updated.

r-frfile.p

Notes

 FRAME-FILE
  returns a null string if the frame field being entered is not associated
  with a database field.
 If the cursor is not in an enabled input field when the last
  input statement ends, FRAME-FILE returns a null string.
• The FRAME-FILE value is set to blanks at the next PAUSE statement, at
  the next READKEY statement, or when the AVM pauses automatically.

See also

FRAME-FIELD function, FRAME-VALUE function, PROGRAM-NAME function




FRAME-INDEX function

During a data entry statement, returns the
subscript of the array element of the input field that the cursor
is in as an INTEGER value. At other times, returns the subscript
of the array element the cursor was in.

The FRAME-INDEX function
is particularly useful if you want to provide the user with help
for the input array element being edited.

Note: Does
not apply to SpeedScript programming.

Syntax

Example

In
this example, the FRAME-INDEX function uses the cursor position
to determine which option you have chosen:

r-frindx.p

Notes

 If
  the cursor is not in an enabled input field when the last input statement
  is executed, FRAME-INDEX returns a 0. For example, FRAME-INDEX returns
  0 if the user presses END-ERROR on the
  previous input statement.
 The FRAME-INDEX value is set to 0 at the next pause (done by
  a PAUSE statement or automatically by the AVM) or at the next READKEY statement.
• If you are updating a subset of an array-for example, TEXT(array-field[i
  TO 12]), and you use a variable subscript (i),
  then FRAME-INDEX returns 0. If you use a constant subscript, TEXT(array-field[6
  TO 12]), then FRAME-INDEX returns the correct value.

See also

Frame phrase, FRAME-DB function, FRAME-FIELD function, FRAME-FILE function




FRAME-LINE function

Returns an INTEGER value that represents the
current logical line number in a down frame.

Note: Does
not apply to SpeedScript programming.

Syntax

frame: The frame name that you are trying to determine a line number
    for. If you do not supply a frame name, the FRAME-LINE function
    uses the default frame for the block that contains the FRAME-LINE
    function. If the FRAME-LINE function is in a DO block, the function
    uses the default frame scoped to the block that contains the DO block.

Example

This
procedure lists Customers and allows the user to delete Customers
one at a time. When the user presses GET to
delete a Customer, the procedure displays an overlay frame below
the last Customer displayed. The overlay frame prompts "Do you want
to delete this customer?" The user answers yes or no. The AVM calculates
the position of the overlay frame from the upper-right corner of
the frame and the current line within the frame. That is, FRAME-ROW
• 3 + FRAME-LINE gives the position of the current line in the frame,
taking into account the three lines for the frame box and the labels.
The prompt is placed five lines below the current line.

r-frline.p

Notes

 If
  there is a down pending for a frame, the FRAME-LINE function returns
  a value equal to FRAME-LINE + 1.
 The FRAME-LINE function counts an underline row as a logical
  line. A logical line corresponds to one iteration in a down frame
  and can contain more than one physical line.
• The FRAME-LINE function returns a value of 0 if the frame is
  not in view when the function is evaluated.

See also

Frame phrase, FRAME-COL function, FRAME-DOWN function, FRAME-ROW function




FRAME-NAME function

Returns the name of the frame that the cursor
is in to a field that is enabled for input.

Note: Does
not apply to SpeedScript programming.

Syntax

Example

This
procedure displays Customer information in one frame, then displays Order
information for the Customer in a second frame. Use the FRAME-NAME
function to display the name of the frame the cursor is in.

r-frname.p

Notes

 The
  FRAME-NAME function returns an empty string for a frame that has
  not been named (the default frame). It also returns an empty string
  if the cursor is in a field that is not enabled for input.
 When using the FRAME-NAME function, you must place it logically following
  the Frame phrase where it is named.
• FRAME-NAME is especially useful for context-sensitive help.

See also

Frame phrase, PROGRAM-NAME function




FRAME-ROW function

Returns a DECIMAL value that represents the
row position of the upper-left corner of a frame within its window.

Note: Does not apply to SpeedScript programming.

Syntax

frame: The name of the frame whose row position you are trying to determine.
    If you do not supply a frame name, the FRAME-ROW function uses the
    default frame for the block that contains the FRAME-ROW function. If
    the FRAME-ROW function is in a DO block, the function uses the default
    frame scoped to the block that contains the DO block.

Example

This
procedure displays Customer information in one frame, then displays Order
information for the Customer in a second frame that overlays the
first. FRAME-ROW and FRAME-COL control the placement of the overlay
frame. FRAME-ROW places the overlay frame on the eighth row of the
first frame. FRAME-COL places the overlay frame on the first column
of the first frame.

r-frrow.p

Note

To convert
the decimal value returned by FRAME-ROW to an integer value, use
the INTEGER function.

See also

Frame phrase, FRAME-COL function, FRAME-DOWN function, FRAME-LINE function, INTEGER function




FRAME-VALUE function

During a data entry statement, returns the
(character string) value of the input field that the cursor is in
to the current input field. At other times, returns the (character
string) value of the input field the cursor was last in.

Note: Does not apply to SpeedScript programming.

Syntax

Example

When
the user presses END-ERROR while
running this procedure, the procedure displays the name and value
of the field the user was updating, along with the name of the table
that contains that field.

r-frval.p

Notes

 If
  the cursor is not in an enabled input field when the last input statement
  ends, FRAME-VALUE returns a null string.
 FRAME-VALUE is set to blanks at the next pause (done by a PAUSE statement
  or automatically by the AVM) or at the next READKEY statement.
• FRAME-VALUE returns strings. If you use FRAME-VALUE to return
  a number, you must convert it prior to numeric comparisons. For example:

See also

FRAME-FIELD function, FRAME-FILE function, FRAME-VALUE statement, PROGRAM-NAME function




FRAME-VALUE statement

Stores the value of an expression in a frame
field during a data entry statement.

Note: Does
not apply to SpeedScript programming.

Syntax

expression: A constant, field name, variable name or expression whose value
    you want to store in a frame field. If no frame is active when the AVM
    runs this statement, the AVM returns an error message. Otherwise, if
    the frame is in view, the AVM redisplays the field.

    The data
    type of the expression must be the same as the
    data type of the frame field in which you are storing that expression.
    However, if the data type of expression is character,
    the AVM stores characters in the frame field regardless of the data
    type of that frame field, truncating characters if necessary.

    The
    FRAME-VALUE statement can pass information from an applhelp.p procedure
    to the calling procedure. For example, if the user enters a value
    into a field called help-field, you can pass that value back to
    the calling procedure with this statement:

Example

This
procedure displays the word PROGRESS, the date, and a message instructing
you to enter data or press the GET key
to enter the Unknown value (?). You can update the information in
the frame. If you press GET, the r-frmval.p procedure assigns
the Unknown value (?) to a field with the FRAME-VALUE
statement.

r-frmval.p

See also

FRAME-FIELD function, FRAME-FILE function, FRAME-VALUE function




Frame phrase

Specifies the overall layout and processing
properties of a frame for frame definition (DEFINE FRAME and FORM),
block header (DO, FOR EACH, and REPEAT), and data handling (DISPLAY,
SET, etc.) statements. When used on block header statements, the
Frame phrase also specifies the default frame for data handling
statements within the block. Frame phrases can also be used on individual
data handling statements to indicate the specific frame where the
statement applies.

Syntax

ACCUM [ max-length]: The ACCUM option lets you use aggregate functions (such as MAX,
    MIN, TOTAL, and SUBTOTAL) to accumulate values within shared frames.
    With the ACCUM option, aggregate values can be shared among procedures
    through shared frames. You must include the ACCUM option in the
    FORM statement or DEFINE FRAME statement of each procedure that
    uses the shared frame.

    The following procedure defines a new
    shared frame:

    The following procedure uses the shared frame:

    When you specify a user-defined aggregate label,
    use the max-length parameter of the ACCUM option
    to specify a maximum aggregate label length in the frame phrases
    of shared frames. For more information, see the Aggregate phrase reference
    entry.

at-phrase: Specifies the position of the frame (upper-left corner) within
    a window or parent frame. This is the syntax for the AT phrase for
    a frame:

    Note that for a frame parented by a window,
    you must specify an absolute position relative to the display area
    of the window. For a frame parented by another frame, you must specify
    a position relative to the display area of the parent frame. The
    default value for all AT phrase parameters is 1. ABL ignores the
    COLUMN or X option if you use the CENTERED option for the same frame.
    For more information on at-phrase, see the AT phrase reference
    entry.

CANCEL-BUTTON button-name: Specifies the cancel button for the frame. This is the button
    chosen when the ESC key code is
    applied to the frame in Windows. This button might also be chosen
    when the ESC key code is applied
    to a frame within the same frame family that does not have a cancel
    button. In such an event, the AVM searches the frame family in random
    order. The first cancel button found during this random search is
    chosen. The button-name argument must be a static
    button name.

CENTERED: Centers the frame horizontally in the window or frame to
    which it is parented (or the terminal display, in character mode).
    If you use the CENTERED option and are sending output to a device
    other than the terminal, the AVM centers the frame for the terminal.
    This might result in a non-centered frame on the alternate output
    device.

    You can also use the AT phrase or COLUMN option to
    specify the position of the frame.

color-specification: For a graphical user interface, specifies the foreground
    and background color of the frame; for a character interface, specifies
    the display and prompt colors for the frame.

    For graphical interfaces, the FGCOLOR and BGCOLOR
    options specify the foreground and background color of the frame.
    These options are not supported in character interfaces. For character
    interfaces, use the DCOLOR and PFCOLOR options (which are not supported
    in graphical interfaces) to specify the display color and prompt
    color of the frame.

    The COLOR option is obsolete, but is retained
    for backward compatibility.

    Widgets (except child frames)
    within the frame inherit the colors of the frame by default. You
    can also set the colors of each widget individually.

COLUMN expression: The expression is a constant, field name,
    variable name or expression whose value is the number of the column,
    relative to the window or parent frame in which you place the frame.
    The default value is 1. ABL ignores this option if you use the CENTERED
    option for the same frame.

    The AVM evaluates expression each
    time the frame comes into view or is printed at the top or bottom
    of a page (if the frame is a PAGE-TOP or PAGE-BOTTOM frame). For
    more information, see the expression option of
    the FORM statement.

n COLUMNS: Formats data fields into a specific number (n) of columns, where n can be 1, 2, or
For n = 1, 16 positions are allowed for a label;
    for n = 2, 14 positions are allowed; and for
    n = 3, 12 positions are allowed. Label positions
    include room for a colon and a space after the label. (If the -nocolon startup parameter was in effect when compiling the r-code, the
    colon is omitted, but room for the space after the label is still included. See the
    Startup Command and Parameter Reference for more
    information on -nocolon.) Labels are right justified
    if they are short, and truncated if they are too long. By default, the AVM wraps fields
    across the frame for as many lines as required, placing labels above the fields.

    When you use this option, it forces SIDE-LABELS and overrides any AT,
    COLON, TO, or SPACE options you might have used in the same Frame phrase.

CONTEXT-HELP: Specifies that context-sensitive help is available for this
    frame. This option is valid in Windows GUI only.

CONTEXT-HELP-FILE help-file-name: Specifies the complete pathname of a help (.HLP) file associated with
    this frame. If CONTEXT-HELP-FILE is specified without CONTEXT-HELP, CONTEXT-HELP is
    assumed. This behavior can be overridden by setting the dialog box's CONTEXT-HELP
    attribute to FALSE at run time. This option is valid in Windows GUI only. The pathname
    can contain Unicode characters. See Internationalize ABL
    Applications for more information about Unicode.

DEFAULT-BUTTON button-name: Specifies a default button for the frame. This is the button
    chosen when the ENTER key code in Windows is invoked for the frame.
    This button might also be chosen when the ESC key
    code is applied to a frame within the same frame family that does
    not have a default button. In such an event, the AVM searches the
    frame family in random order. The first default button found during
    this random search is chosen. The button-name argument
    must be the name of a static button. This button must be defined
    with the DEFAULT option and cannot display an image.

DROP-TARGET: Indicates whether you want to be able to drop a file onto the object.

[ expression ] DOWN: Specifies that the frame is a down frame. A down
    frame is a frame that can display multiple occurrences of the set of fields
    defined in the frame. The expression is a constant,
    field name, variable name or expression whose value is the number of occurrences you
    want in the frame. If you specify 1 for expression,
    the frame is not a down frame.

    Down frames
    are typically specified for iterative blocks. On the first iteration of the block, the
    AVM displays the first set of data (a record, field, or variable value) as the first
    occurrence in the frame. After displaying the data, the AVM advances to the next
    occurrence in the frame on the second iteration of the block, and displays the second
    set of data there. The AVM continues advancing and displaying data for the number of
    occurrences specified by expression, and prompts
    to continue with another set of occurrences until all the data has been displayed. The
    AVM evaluates expression each time the frame comes
    into view or is printed at the top or bottom of a page (if the frame is a PAGE-TOP or
    PAGE-BOTTOM frame). If you do not specify expression, the AVM displays as many occurrences as can fit in the
    current window.

    If you do not use the DOWN option, ABL
    automatically makes certain frames down frames, unless you specify otherwise (1
    DOWN).

EXPORT: This option is valid only for SQL.

WIDGET-ID id-number: Specifies a widget ID for a frame widget. The value of id-number must
    be an expression that evaluates to an even integer value between
    2 and 65534, inclusive, and must be unique across all widget IDs
    in the window or dialog box.

    If you specify an invalid ID, the
    compiler displays an error message. This option is supported in
    graphical interfaces only, and only in Windows.

FONT expression: Specifies the font of the frame. All widgets within a frame,
    except child frames, inherit the font of the frame by default. You
    can also set the font of each widget individually. By default, the
    AVM uses the default system font.

FRAME frame: Defines new frames by giving them unique names. Whenever the same
    frame name is referred to in more than one Frame phrase, ABL combines
    the characteristics on each Frame phrase naming that frame. ABL
    also combines any frame characteristics used in data handling statements
    that name the same frame into the same frame description. This option
    is redundant for DEFINE FRAME statements. If you do not specify this
    option, ABL uses the default frame for the current block.

INHERIT-BGCOLOR | NO-INHERIT-BGCOLOR: Specifies whether the following field-level widgets in the
    frame inherit the frame's background color: BROWSE, COMBO-BOX (all types),
    EDITOR, FILL-IN (NATIVE and Enabled), and SELECTION-LIST.

    Specify
    the INHERIT-BGCOLOR option to allow field-level widgets in the frame
    to inherit the frame's background color. Specify the NO-INHERIT-BGCOLOR
    option to prevent field-level widgets in the frame from inheriting
    the frame's background color.

    Specifying either of these
    options overrides the INHERIT-BGCOLOR attribute setting for the
    session. Setting the frame's INHERIT-BGCOLOR attribute overrides
    the INHERIT-BGCOLOR option on the frame. Setting the BGCOLOR attribute
    for a field-level widget within the frame overrides any INHERIT-BGCOLOR
    attribute or option settings.

INHERIT-FGCOLOR | NO-INHERIT-FGCOLOR: Specifies whether the following field-level widgets in the
    frame inherit the frame's foreground color: BROWSE, COMBO-BOX (all
    types), EDITOR, FILL-IN (NATIVE and Enabled), and SELECTION-LIST.

    Specify
    the INHERIT-FGCOLOR option to allow field-level widgets in the frame
    to inherit the frame's foreground color. Specify the NO-INHERIT-FGCOLOR
    option to prevent field-level widgets in the frame from inheriting
    the frame's foreground color.

    Specifying either of these
    options overrides the INHERIT-FGCOLOR attribute setting for the
    session. Setting the frame's INHERIT-FGCOLOR attribute overrides
    the INHERIT-FGCOLOR option on the frame. Setting the FGCOLOR attribute
    for a field-level widget within the frame overrides any INHERIT-FGCOLOR
    attribute or option settings.

KEEP-TAB-ORDER: Prevents the frame-oriented I/O statements, ENABLE, UPDATE,
    SET, and PROMPT-FOR, from changing the tab order of your widgets
    in the frame. The tab order always remains the same as the order in
    which you first specify widgets in the frame. If you do not specify
    this option, ABL creates a new tab order based on the order specified
    in each frame-oriented I/O statement.

    All attributes and methods
    that affect tab order (such as FIRST-TAB-ITEM and MOVE-AFTER-TAB),
    continue to change the tab order whether or not you specify this
    option. If you specify the option, these attributes and methods
    specify a new tab order for all frame-oriented I/O statements that
    follow.

NO-BOX: Does not display a box around the frame. If you do not use
    this option, the AVM displays a box around the data you are displaying.

    If
    you are sending data to a device other than a terminal and you do not
    use this option, the AVM omits the sides and bottom line of the
    box and replaces the top line with blanks.

NO-HIDE: Suppress the automatic hiding of the frame (when the block where
    the frame is scoped iterates). The frame is hidden only if space
    is needed to display other frames.

    NO-HIDE suppresses hiding
    for a frame only when the block where that frame is scoped iterates.
    For example:

    In this example, the AVM does not hide frame
    b when the inner block iterates. However, it does hide frame b when
    the outer block iterates. If you want the frame to stay in view
    during iterations of the outer block, scope the frame to that block.

NO-LABELS: Does not display labels. This option overrides any COLUMN-LABEL
    option you include in another phrase or statement.

NO-UNDERLINE: Does not underline labels appearing above fields.

USE-DICT-EXPS: Ensures that validation expressions and help strings from
    the Data Dictionary are compiled into the application. Typically,
    when the ABL compiler encounters a field reference in an input statement,
    Data Dictionary help and validation expressions are compiled in
    for that field, unless the field has a HELP or VALIDATE option (format
    phrase) attached in the input statement (or earlier in the procedure).
    In this case, the custom help or validation expression is used.

    There are two syntax constructs that can enable a field for input
    without the compiler specifically knowing about it: ENABLE ALL and widget-name:SENSITIVE = YES.

    When
    ABL encounters an ENABLE ALL statement, every field in the associated
    frame has Data Dictionary validation expressions and help strings
    compiled into the application. This closes any possible validation or
    help hole. As a side-effect, validation expressions and help strings
    that are not required might be compiled, but this will not affect
    the application.

    This behavior places two important conditions
    on you. First, adding a field to a frame after the first ENABLE
    ALL is not desirable. Data Dictionary validation and help will not
    be compiled for this field. Second, any custom validation or help
    must come before the first ENABLE ALL. A good practice is to include
    these in the DEFINE FRAME or FORM statements.

    In the case
    of widget-name:SENSITIVE = YES, there is more
    potential for validation and help holes. Since the compiler cannot
    predict whether these statements are used, in effect, as input statements,
    no help or validation is compiled. USE-DICT-EXPS explicitly compiles
    in all validation expressions and help strings for a frame. For each
    frame that you use widget-name:SENSITIVE = YES,
    specify USE-DICT-EXPS. This closes any potential validation or help
    holes. To provide custom help or validation when using USE-DICT-EXPS,
    the HELP or VALIDATE option must appear in the first reference to
    that field. Typically, this is in the DEFINE FRAME or FORM statement.

NO-VALIDATE: Disregards all validation conditions specified in the Data Dictionary for
    fields entered in this frame.

NO-AUTO-VALIDATE: Tells ABL to compile into the code all relevant validations
    it finds in the OpenEdge Data Dictionary, but to run the validations
    only when the code for the frame or for a field-level child-widget
    of the frame specifically invokes the VALIDATE() method.

NO-HELP: Disregards all help strings specified in the Data Dictionary
    for fields entered in this frame.

OVERLAY: Indicates that the frame can overlay any other frame that
    does not use the TOP-ONLY option. If you do not use this option,
    the frame you are using cannot overlay other frames. If the AVM
    needs to display an OVERLAY frame and doing so will partially obscure
    a TOP-ONLY frame, it first hides the TOP-ONLY frame. Any frame parented
    by another frame is an OVERLAY frame within the parent frame.

    This
    procedure uses the OVERLAY option on the Frame phrase:

    r-ovrlay.p

    The procedure above displays customer information
    in one frame. The procedure then displays order information for
    the customer in a second frame that overlays the first.

PAGE-BOTTOM: Displays the frame at the bottom of the page each time the output ends
    a page.

PAGE-TOP: Displays the frame each time the output begins on a new page.

    The
    following table shows how the PAGE-TOP and PAGE-BOTTOM options work
    depending on the kind of DISPLAY or VIEW.

    Table 1. Using
    PAGE-TOP and PAGE-BOTTOM frames

RETAIN n: Specifies the number of frame iterations to retain when the
    frame scrolls on the screen. The n must be a
    constant. For example, RETAIN 2 causes the AVM to display the last
    two iterations in a down frame at the top of the frame. If you are
    using UP to scroll up a window, those two lines are displayed at
    the bottom of the window. Do not use the SCROLL option in a Frame
    phrase in which you also use the RETAIN option. By default, the
    AVM does not retain any iterations in the window that have already
    been displayed.

ROW expression: The expression is a constant, field name,
    variable name, function reference, or expression whose value is
    the row, relative to the window or parent frame in which you place
    the frame. If you are displaying a frame on a device other than
    a terminal, this option has no effect. By default, the AVM displays
    a root frame at the next available row of the window and displays
    a child frame at row 1 of the parent frame.

    The AVM evaluates expression each
    time the frame comes into view or is printed at the top or bottom
    of a page (if the frame is a PAGE-TOP or PAGE-BOTTOM frame).

    For
    more info, see the expression option of the FORM statement.

[ SCREEN-IO | STREAM-IO ]: If you specify STREAM-IO for a frame, the USE-TEXT option is
    assumed and all font specifications are ignored. The frame is formatted using
    a fixed font in a manner appropriate for streaming to a text file
    or printer. In particular, all border padding for FILL-IN widgets
    is dropped and the default system font is used.

    If you use
    the STREAM-IO option on the COMPILE statement, this behavior is
    the default for all frames in the procedure. In this case, you can override
    that option by specifying SCREEN-IO for an individual frame.

SCROLL n: Displays a scrolling frame rather than a paging frame. The value n is
    a constant that specifies the number of frame iterations to scroll
    when the frame scrolls in the window. For example, if a procedure
    uses a DISPLAY or DOWN statement when a scrolling frame is full,
    the data in the frame scrolls up n iterations (rather
    than clearing and repainting the frame as it would without the SCROLL
    option).

    This procedure uses the SCROLL option to scroll the display
    one line at a time:

    r-fphrsc.p

    Do not use the RETAIN option in a Frame phrase
    in which you also use the SCROLL option.

SCROLLABLE: If you specify this option, the virtual size of the frame might
    exceed the physical space allocated for it in the window. If that
    happens, scrolling is enabled for the frame. If you omit this option,
    the physical and virtual size of the frame are always the same and
    scrolling is never enabled for the frame.

SIDE-LABELS: Displays field labels to the left of and centered against the data,
    separated from the data by a colon (:) and a space. If you do not use the SIDE-LABELS
    option, the AVM displays labels above their corresponding fields in the frame header and
    separates the labels from the field values with underlining. To create side labels
    without colons automatically added, compile the r-code with the -nocolon startup parameter in effect. See the Startup
    Command and Parameter Reference for more information.

size-phrase: Specifies the size of the frame. This is the syntax for size-phrase:

    For more information on size-phrase,
    see the SIZE phrase reference entry.

STREAM stream: Allows you to specify the name of a stream for SQL statements.

STREAM-HANDLE handle: Specifies the handle to a stream. If handle it is not a valid handle to a stream, the AVM generates a run-time
    error. Note that stream handles are not valid for the unnamed streams. See the topics on
    alternate I/O sources in OpenEdge Programming Interfaces
    for more information on streams and stream handles.

THREE-D: Specifies that the frame and all contained widget appear in three-dimensional
    format (Windows only). If you specify the THREE-D option for a frame,
    the default background color is gray rather than the window color.
    Frames do not inherit the THREE-D setting from a parent window,
    and child frames do not inherit the THREE-D setting from a parent
    frame.

title-phrase: Displays a title as part of the top line of the box around a
    display frame. Following is the syntax for the title-phrase:

    The title-string is a constant,
    field name, variable name, or expression whose result is a character
    value. The expression is the value you want to
    display as a title. If title-string is a constant
    character string, it must be surrounded by quotes (""). The AVM
    automatically centers title-string in the top
    line of the frame box.

    The BGCOLOR, FGCOLOR, COLOR, and FONT
    options have no effect and are supported for backward compatibility
    only.

    You can use the DCOLOR option to specify the color
    of the title in a character interface.

TOP-ONLY: Indicates that no other frame can overlay this frame. If you
    do not use this option, other frames that use the OVERLAY option
    can overlay this frame. If the AVM has to display an OVERLAY frame
    and by doing so will partially obscure a TOP-ONLY frame, it first
    hides the TOP-ONLY frame. See also the OVERLAY attribute reference
    entry.

USE-TEXT: Specifies that the default widget type for all widgets in the
    frame is TEXT rather than FILL-IN. Thus, all border padding on the
    widgets is dropped.

V6FRAME [ USE-REVVIDEO | USE-UNDERLINE]: The V6FRAME option is designed specifically to compile and run Progress Version
    6 applications with Progress Version 7 or later in Windows. This
    option uses the V6FontNumber setting in the [Startup] section of
    the current environment to calculate the height and width of a character
    unit and then set the layout grid used to compile frames for display
    in Progress Version 7 or later.

    At run time, the FONT attribute
    for a frame compiled with the V6FRAME option is set to the font
    number specified with the V6FontNumber setting. The default setting
    for the V6FontNumber setting is 3.

    By default, V6FRAME displays
    a border around a fill-in field. This means that your code requires
    more space on the screen than in Progress Version 6. You can override
    this behavior with one of the following options:

     USE-REVVIDEO
      displays no border around a fill-in field. When a fill-in is enabled
      for input, the color of the fill-in changes to the color specified
      with the INPUT setting in the [Colors] section in the current environment.
      The IBEAM cursor signals that a fill-in field has input focus.
     USE-UNDERLINE displays no border around a fill-in widget. When a
      fill-in is enabled for input, the underline attribute of the font (V6FontNumber)
      for the fill-in is turned on. The color of a fill-in enabled for
      input does not change. The IBEAM cursor signals that a fill-in field
      has input focus.

    The V6FRAME option also limits the
    vertical size of a frame title to one character unit based upon
    the layout grid. The text of the frame title is in the font specified
    with the V6FontNumber setting in the [Startup] section of the current
    environment.

    The V6FRAME option governs the appearance of
    screen output only. Use the STREAM-IO option to compile procedures
    that output to files and printers. If you specify the V6FRAME and
    STREAM-IO options in the same frame phrase, the STREAM-IO option
    overrides the V6FRAME option.

    For more information on the environment for an ABL session, see
    Manage ABL Applications.

VIEW-AS DIALOG-BOX: Specifies that the frame is displayed as a dialog box. A dialog
    box is a modal, one-down frame with many of the properties of a
    window. Like a window, a dialog box can be moved and programmatically
    resized, and it acquires scroll bars when it is resized smaller
    than its original frame dimensions. Unlike a window, it cannot be
    minimized or maximized; nor can it have a menu bar. As a frame-level
    widget, it is owned by a window and can contain a frame family,
    but it cannot be owned by another frame or dialog box. Because it
    is modal, a dialog box must be disabled before any other widgets
    in the application can be accessed by the user. For more information
    on the properties of a dialog box, and to compare them with the
    properties of a frame, see the Widget Reference.

WIDTH n: Specifies the number (n) of columns in a frame.
    If you do not use size-phrase or the WIDTH option,
    the width of the frame is based on the fields you are displaying,
    the position of the frame, and the width of the current or specified window.

IN WINDOW window: Specifies the window in which the frame is displayed. The value window must
    be the handle of a window. This option is not allowed in a DISABLE
    statement. By default, the AVM displays the frame in the current window.

Examples

The r-frame.p procedure
displays the CustNum, Name, and Phone number
for each Customer record. The frame phrase (starting with the word
WITH) describes the frame being used to display that information.

r-frame.p

The r-frame2.p procedure
produces a Customer report, using Customer List as the header for
each page of the report and using Customer List Continued On Next
Page as the footer for each page of the report. The OUTPUT TO statement
directs all output to the file phone.lst. After
running the r-frame2.p procedure, you can press GET then type the name of the file
to view the contents of phone.lst.

r-frame2.p

Notes

 PAGE-TOP
  and PAGE-BOTTOM frames are activated based on DISPLAY or VIEW statements
  as previously described. They are deactivated when the block in
  which the frames are scoped iterates or ends.
 If you use the SIZE phrase for a down frame, then the size you
  specify determines the number of iterations in the frame. The number
  of iterations you specify with the DOWN option is ignored.
 You can input and output to a frame only when that frame is
  in full view. Therefore, when you input or output to a frame that
  is hidden or partially overlayed, the AVM displays the frame first.
 An empty WITH clause is valid. If the WITH keyword appears by itself,
  or in the clause following an earlier WITH, it is ignored. This
  feature is useful when designing template programs to be called
  with arguments. For example, a template program with a line like
  DISPLAY {1} WITH {2} executes correctly even if called with only
  one argument.
 The SIZE phrase and WIDTH options are mutually exclusive. If
  you specify WIDTH or you specify neither WIDTH nor the SIZE, the
  height of a frame is based on the fields you are displaying, the
  position of the frame, and whether or not it is a down frame.
 A frame parented by another frame cannot function as a down frame.
 If you position a child frame completely outside the virtual
  area of its parent frame, the AVM raises ERROR at run time when
  the frame is realized.
 If you position a child frame partially within the virtual area
  of its parent frame or the child frame is larger than the virtual
  area of the parent frame, the AVM crops the child frame to fit the
  parent's virtual area and adds scroll bars to the child.
 If you position a child frame partially within the physical
  area of its parent frame or the child frame is larger than the physical
  area of the parent frame, the AVM adds scroll bars to the parent.
 You cannot specify the VIEW-AS DIALOG-BOX option for a frame used as a
  DDE frame. For information on DDE frames, see OpenEdge Programming
  Interfaces.
 If you have enabled application-defined widget IDs in your ABL GUI
  application, by specifying the Use Widget ID (-usewidgetid) startup parameter, then the AVM uses the value specified in the
  WIDGET-ID option to set the WIDGET-ID attribute for this widget when it
  creates the widget at run time, instead of using the widget ID it normally generates by
  default. If you have not enabled application-defined widget IDs, then the AVM ignores this
  option setting at run time.

  For more information about the WIDGET-ID
  attribute, see its reference entry in the Handle Attributes and Methods Reference. For more information
  about the Use Widget ID (-usewidgetid) startup
  parameter, see Startup Command and Parameter
  Reference.
 For SpeedScript, WebSpeed evaluates the Frame phrase as though you were
  running a character client. The typical WebSpeed application does not use frames when
  defining layout. However, if you are using existing ABL code that includes frame layouts,
  you can iterate through frame children to retrieve validation expressions and help
  strings. Generally, in SpeedScript programming, the frame serves as a virtual container
  for widgets. These options are invalid: CENTERED, CONTEXT-HELP, CONTEXT-HELP-FILE,
  DEFAULT-BUTTON, SCROLLBAR VERTICAL, V6FRAME, USE-REVVIDEO, USE-UNDERLINE, VIEW-AS
  DIALOG-BOX, IN WINDOW.

See also

DEFINE FRAME statement, FORM statement, Format phrase, FRAME-COL function, FRAME-DOWN function, FRAME-LINE function, FRAME-ROW function, Stream object handle




GO-PENDING function

Returns a TRUE value if, within an EDITING
phrase, an APPLY statement results in a GO action. The GO action
is deferred until the end of the EDITING phrase.

This function
is supported only for backward compatibility.

Note: Does
not apply to SpeedScript programming.

Syntax

Example

The r-gopend.p procedure
lets you update some of the fields in each customer record. If you
press GO when the value in the current
balance field is greater than the balance in the credit-limit field,
the UPDATE statement does not end. Instead, it continues prompting
you for input until you correct the problem and then press GO.

r-gopend.p

See also

APPLY statement, EDITING phrase




HIDE statement

Makes a widget invisible (sets its VISIBLE
attribute to FALSE), or clears the message area for a window, or
hides all widgets and clears messages in a window.

Note: Does not apply to SpeedScript programming.

Syntax

STREAM stream: Specifies the name of a stream. If you do not name a stream,
    the AVM uses the unnamed stream.

STREAM-HANDLE handle: Specifies the handle to a stream. If handle it is not a valid handle to a stream, the AVM generates a run-time
    error. Note that stream handles are not valid for the unnamed streams. See the topics on
    alternate I/O sources in OpenEdge Programming Interfaces
    for more information on streams and stream handles.

widget-phrase: The widget you want to hide. You can hide windows, frames, and field-level
    widgets. You cannot hide menus. If you do not use this option or
    the MESSAGE or ALL options, HIDE hides the default frame for the block
    that contains the HIDE statement.

MESSAGE: Hides all messages displayed in the message area for the specified window.
    If you use the PUT SCREEN statement to display data in the message
    area, the HIDE MESSAGE statement does not necessarily hide that
    data.

ALL: Hides all widgets in the window and clears the message area
    for the window.

NO-PAUSE: Does not pause before hiding. Ordinarily, if data has been displayed, but
    there have been no data entry operations or pauses, the AVM prompts you
    to press SPACEBAR to continue before
    hiding the widget.

IN WINDOW window: Specifies which window the HIDE statement acts on. The value window must
    evaluate to the handle of a window. If you do not use the IN WINDOW
    option, the current window is assumed.

Example

The
following example uses the HIDE statement to hide selected frames. The
DISPLAY statements re-display the frames when the loop iterates.

r-hide.p

Notes

 When
  a block iterates, any display frame that is scoped to the block
  or to a nested block is tagged for hiding (unless you have used
  the NO-HIDE option in the Frame phrase), but is not hidden. Then,
  the first frame activity of the next iteration (a DISPLAY, INSERT,
  PROMPT-FOR, SET, VIEW, or UPDATE statement) for a frame scoped to
  the block or to a nested block causes all tagged frames to be hidden.

  The
  frame associated with that first frame activity is not hidden because
  it would be redisplayed immediately. This improves display time. When
  a block ends, the AVM removes the hide tags from all the frames scoped
  to that block or to nested blocks.
 Frames displayed by procedures within a block or within a nested block
  are treated the same as other frames in a nested block.
 When the AVM displays a frame and there is not enough room in
  the window, it automatically hides one or more frames. Frames are
  hidden one at a time, starting with the lowest frame in the window,
  until there is room to fit the new frame.
 It is more efficient to HIDE ALL than to HIDE each frame individually.
 If you hide a PAGE-TOP or PAGE-BOTTOM frame, it is removed from
  the list of active frames for printing at the top or bottom of each page.
 If you are working in a PAGE-TOP or PAGE-BOTTOM frame, use the
  VIEW or DISPLAY statement to activate that frame. The VIEW statement
  does not display a PAGE-TOP or PAGE-BOTTOM frame. It activates the
  frame so that when a new page begins or ends, the AVM displays the
  frame. If you use the HIDE statement to hide a PAGE-TOP or PAGE-BOTTOM
  frame, the AVM deactivates that frame so that it can no longer be
  displayed unless it is reactivated with a VIEW or DISPLAY statement.
 If output is not directed to the terminal, HIDE has no effect
  on the terminal display.
 In batch mode, the HIDE statement produces an error. If you
  want to remove the contents of a frame, use the CLEAR statement
  instead.
 You can use HIDE MESSAGE to hide a message.
 If you invoke the HIDE statement for a field-level widget or
  child frame, the HIDDEN attribute of the specified field-level widget
  or child frame is also set to TRUE. However, if you invoke the HIDE
  statement for a child window, the HIDDEN attribute of the child
  window is unaffected.
• When you HIDE a visible window, any visible descendant windows are
  hidden also (including iconified descendants), but any visible ancestor windows
  remain unaffected. However, if you HIDE a window whose HIDDEN attribute
  is currently set to TRUE, its descendant windows remain unaffected.

See also

CLEAR statement, VIEW statement, Widget phrase, Stream object handle




Image phrase

Specifies the file in which an image is stored
and the dimensions of the image.

Note: Does not
apply to SpeedScript programming.

Syntax

FILE name: A character expression that specifies the name of an operating system
    file that contains an image. If you do not specify a full pathname, ABL searches your
    PROPATH for the file. If you do not supply a suffix,
    ABL searches for files with the extension.bmp,.ico, or.cur in Windows. The image contained within the file must be in a format
    that is appropriate for the target platform. The file is not read until the image is
    displayed. The filename can contain Unicode characters. See Internationalize ABL Applications for more information about Unicode.

[ IMAGE-SIZE | IMAGE-SIZE-CHARS ]: Specifies that the unit of measure when reading the image is
    characters.

IMAGE-SIZE-PIXELS: Specifies that the unit of measure when reading the image is pixels.

width: Specifies the width of the image. The value width must
    be an integer constant. If the image is larger than the size you
    specify, the AVM crops the image to the specified size.

height: Specifies the height of the image. The value height must
    be an integer constant. If the image is larger than the size you
    specify, the AVM crops the image to the specified size.

FROM { X n Y n | ROW n COL n }: Two integer constants (n) that specify the offset
    inside the image file where the AVM starts reading the image. If
    you specify X and Y, the offset is measured in pixels; if you specify
    ROW and COL, the offset is measured in characters.

Example

See
the DEFINE IMAGE statement reference entry for an example.

Notes

 Use
  one of the image size options in conjunction with the FILE option
  to make a compile-time association between the image file and the image
  widget; the image file does not have to exist at this point.
 Use one of the image size options without the FILE option to
  create an image widget that is not associated with an image file
  at compile time. You can then make the association at run time.
 Use the FILE option without one of the image size options if
  you do not know the size of the image and want ABL to determine
  the size at compile time. If you do this, ABL uses the entire image.
  Also note that the image file must exist or a compiler error will
  occur.
 In Windows, you can specify a URL pathname. If you do not specify a
  fully-qualified URL, ABL searches in the PROPATH for
  the file. Valid URL protocols include HTTP and HTTPS.

  Note: URL
  pathnames cannot contain the percent symbol (%).
  If an error exists in a URL specified on the PROPATH,
  ABL continues searching with the next PROPATH entry.
• The following table lists the image file formats that are
  currently supported for use on button and image widgets.

  Table 1. Supported
  image file types

See also

DEFINE BUTTON statement, DEFINE IMAGE statement, FORM statement




INPUT function

References the value of a field in a frame.
For example, if you use the PROMPT-FOR statement to get input from
the user, PROMPT-FOR stores that information in the screen buffer.
You can use the INPUT function to refer to that information.

Note: Does not apply to SpeedScript programming.

Syntax

FRAME frame: The name of the frame that contains the field named by the field argument.
    If you do not name a frame, the INPUT function starts with the current
    frame and searches outward until it finds the field you name with
    the field argument.

field: The name of a field or variable whose value is stored in the
    screen buffer. The specified field must be viewed as a fill-in or
    text widget.

Example

This
procedure displays the current CreditLimit for
a Customer. The PROMPT-FOR statement prompts the user for a new CreditLimit value
and stores the supplied data in the screen buffer. The procedure
uses the INPUT function to point to the data in that buffer.

r-input.p

If the user enters a new value, the procedure
displays a message that the value has been changed. If the user
enters the same value, the procedure displays a message that the
credit-limit has not been changed.

Notes

 If
  you use a field or variable that is referenced with INPUT in more
  than one frame, then ABL uses the value in the frame most recently introduced
  in the procedure. To ensure that you are using the appropriate frame,
  use the FRAME option with the INPUT function to reference a particular
  frame.
 If you use the INPUT function for a character field whose format contains
  fill characters, then the value of the function does not contain
  the fill characters. The fill characters are not stored in the database
  field or variable, but are instead supplied during display formatting
  of the data.




INSERT statement

Creates a new database record, displays the initial values for the fields in the record, prompts for values of those fields, and assigns those values to the record.

The INSERT statement is a combination of the following statements:

 CREATE - Creates an empty record buffer
 DISPLAY - Moves the record from the record buffer into the screen buffer and displays the contents of the buffer on the screen
 PROMPT-FOR - Accepts input from the user, and puts that input into the screen buffer
 ASSIGN - Moves data from the screen buffer into the record buffer

Note: Does not apply to SpeedScript-programming.

Data movement
CREATE - Creates an empty record buffer
DISPLAY - Moves the contents of the record buffer to the screen buffer and displays the screen buffer
PROMPT-FOR - Accepts input from the user into the screen buffer
ASSIGN - Moves the contents of the screen buffer to the record buffer

Syntax

record: The name of the record you want to add to a database file. The AVM
    creates one record buffer for every file you use in a procedure. This buffer is used
    to hold a single record from the file associated with the buffer. Use the
    DEFINE BUFFER statement to create additional buffers, if necessary.
    The CREATE part of the INSERT statement creates an
    empty record buffer for the file in which you are inserting a record.

    To insert a record in a table defined for multiple databases, you
    must qualify the record's table name with the database name. See the record definition in the Record phrase reference entry for more
    information.

EXCEPT field: Inserts all fields except those listed in the EXCEPT
    phrase.

USING { ROWID (nrow) | RECID (nrec) }: Allows you to insert a record in an RMS relative file (for backward compatibility
    only) using a specific record number, where nrow is
    the ROWID relative record number of the record you want to insert
    and nrec is the RECID relative record number
    of the record you want to insert.

frame-phrase: Specifies the overall layout and processing properties of a
    frame. For more information on frame-phrase,
    see the Frame phrase reference entry.

NO-ERROR: The NO-ERROR option is used to
    prevent the statement from raising ERROR and
    displaying error messages.

Example

In this procedure the user adds a new Order record. After the user adds a
new Order record, the procedure creates OrderLines for that record. The procedure uses the
CREATE statement to create OrderLines rather than the
INSERT statement. When you use the INSERT statement, the
PROMPT-FOR and ASSIGN parts of the
INSERT let you put data into all the fields of the record being inserted.
In the case of OrderLines, this procedure only lets you add information into a few of the
OrderLine fields. Use CREATE together with UPDATE to
single out the OrderLine fields.

r-insrt.p

Notes

 If an error occurs during the INSERT statement, the
  AVM retries the data entry part of the statement and processes the error associated with
  the block that contains the statement. (For example, an error might occur when the user
  enters a duplicate index value for a unique index.)REPEAT:
 When working with a partitioned table, creating a record without initially
  setting the partition fields to valid values may cause an error.
  See CREATE statement for
  more details.
 Any frame characteristics described by an INSERT
  statement contribute to the frame definition. When ABL compiles a procedure, it uses a
  top-to-bottom pass of the procedure to design all the frames required by that procedure,
  including those referenced by INSERT statements, and adds field and
  related format attributes as it goes through the procedure.
 If you receive input from a device other than the terminal, and the
  number of characters read by the INSERT statement for a particular field
  or variable exceeds the display format for that field or variable, the AVM returns an
  error. However, if you set a logical field that has a format of y/n and the data file
  contains a value of yes or no, the AVM converts that value to y or n.
 If you use a single qualified identifier with the
  INSERT statement, the compiler first interprets the reference as
  dbname.filename. If the compiler cannot resolve the reference as
  dbname.filename, it tries to resolve it as filename.fieldname.

  REPEAT:When inserting fields, you must use filenames
  that are different from field names to avoid ambiguous references. See the Record phrase reference entry for more
  information.
 The INSERT statement causes any related database
  CREATE triggers to execute. All CREATE triggers
  execute after the record is actually created. If a CREATE trigger fails
  (or executes a RETURN statement with the ERROR option),
  the record creation is undone.
• In the context of the.NET blocking method, System.Windows.Forms.Application:Run(), if you execute the INSERT statement for a non-modal ABL window from within a
  user-defined function or non-VOID method, this statement raises the STOP condition. For
  more information on the.NET Application:Run() method,
  see the reference entry for the WAIT-FOR statement (.NET and ABL).

See also

DEFINE BUFFER statement, Frame phrase, NO-ERROR option




IS-ATTR-SPACE function

This function is deprecated.

Syntax

See also

TERMINAL statement




KBLABEL function

Returns the keyboard label (such as F1) of the key that performs a
specified ABL function (such as GO).

Note: Does
not apply to SpeedScript programming.

Syntax

key-function: An expression whose value is the name of the special ABL key function.
    See OpenEdge Programming Interfaces for possible values of
    key-name. If key-function is a constant, enclose it in quotation marks (""). See the
    same guide for a list of key functions and the corresponding standard keyboard
    keys.

Example

The r-kblabl.p procedure
allows the user to update some of the fields in each of the customer
records, and displays a message in the status message area at the
bottom of the window:

r-kblabl.p

Note

If you
reassign a new function key for the key function with the ON statement,
the KBLABEL function returns the new key.




KEYCODE function

Evaluates a key label (such as F1) for a key in the predefined set of keyboard keys and returns the corresponding =
key code (such as 301) as an INTEGER value. See OpenEdge Programming
Interfaces for a list of key codes and key labels.

Note: Does not apply to SpeedScript programming.

Syntax

key-label: A constant, field name, variable name, or expression that evaluates to a character
    string that contains a key label. If key-label is a constant, enclose
    it in quotation marks (" ").

Example

This
procedure displays a menu and highlights different selections on
the menu depending on which key you press. On the first iteration
of the REPEAT block, the COLOR statement tells the AVM to color msg[ix] with
the same color used to display messages. Because the initial value
of ix is 1, msg[ix] is the first
menu selection. Therefore, the first menu selection is colored MESSAGES.

r-keycod.p

When you press the cursor-down key, the following
occurs:
The READKEY statement reads the value of the
   key you pressed.
The first IF... THEN... ELSE statement tests to see if
   the key code of the key you pressed is CURSOR-DOWN. It also checks
   whether the value of ix is less than 3. Both of
   these things are true, so the procedure adds one to the value of newi, making newi equal
   two.
The next two IF statements are ignored because the condition
   in the first IF statement was true. The procedure continues on the
   last IF statement: IF ix <> newi THEN COLOR
   DISPLAY NORMAL msg[ix] WITH FRAME menu.
Remember, ix is still 1 but newi is
   now 2. Thus, ix is not equal to newi.
   Which means that the IF statement test is true. Therefore, the AVM
   colors msg[ix], which is still msg[1] (the
   first menu selection), NORMAL. So the first menu selection is no
   longer highlighted.
Just before the end of the REPEAT block, ix is set
   equal to newi. Which means that msg[ix]]
   is now msg[2], or the second menu selection.
On the next iteration, the COLOR statement colors msg[ix],
   that is the second menu selection, MESSAGES. The end result of pressing CURSOR-DOWN is that the highlight
   bar moves to the second menu selection.

See also

KEYFUNCTION function, KEYLABEL function




KEYFUNCTION function

Evaluates an integer expression (such as 301)
and returns a character string that is the function of the key associated
with that integer expression (such as GO).

Note: Does
not apply to SpeedScript programming.

Syntax

expression: A constant, field name, variable name, or expression whose value
    is an integer key code.

Example

This
procedure displays a menu and highlights different selections, depending
on which key you press. On the first iteration of the REPEAT block, the
COLOR statement tells the AVM to color msg[ix] with the same color
used to display messages. Because the initial value of ix is 1,
msg[ix] is the first menu selection. Therefore, the first menu selection
is colored MESSAGES.

r-keyfn.p

See the example in the KEYCODE function reference
entry for details on what happens if you press keylabel component.

Notes

 The
  value returned by the KEYFUNCTION function is affected by any ON
  statements you use to redefine the value of the key represented by expression.
 If the key represented by expression has
  no function currently assigned to it or if it has the function of
  BELL, KEYFUNCTION returns a null value.
• KEYFUNCTION(-2) is equal to ENDKEY.

See also

KEYCODE function, KEYLABEL function




KEYLABEL function

Evaluates a key code (such as 301) and returns
a character string that is the predefined keyboard label for that
key (such as F1).

Note: Does not apply to SpeedScript programming.

Syntax

key-code: The key code of the key whose label you want to know. A special case
    of key-code is LASTKEY. See OpenEdge Programming Interfaces for a list of key codes and key labels.

Example

This
procedure reads each keystroke the user makes, leaving the procedure only
when the user presses GO. The KEYLABEL
function tests the LASTKEY pressed, and returns the label of the
key. (Remember that the value in LASTKEY is the key code of the
last key pressed.)

r-keylbl.p

Note

Some key
codes can be associated with more than one key label. The KEYLABEL
function always returns the label listed first in the ABL table
of key labels.

See also

KEYCODE function, KEYFUNCTION function




KEYWORD-ALL function

Returns a character value that indicates whether
a string is an ABL keyword. This function returns all keywords and
does not distinguish between reserved or unreserved keywords.

Syntax

expression: A constant, field name, variable name, or expression that results in a
    character string. If expression matches an ABL keyword, whether reserved or unreserved
    or valid abbreviation of a keyword, the KEYWORD-ALL function returns the full keyword.
    If there is no match, the KEYWORD-ALL function returns the Unknown value (?).

    In some cases, the abbreviation for a
    keyword is also a keyword. For example, if expression is "def" (the abbreviation for DEFINE) or "col" (the
    abbreviation for COLUMN), the KEYWORD function returns the values "def" and "col",
    respectively.

    If you use the Run-time client, the KEYWORD-ALL
    function always returns the Unknown value (?).

Example

In
this example, the KEYWORD-ALL function tests the value of formname.
If the user tries to use a keyword as a form name, the AVM displays
a message to try again.

r-keywda.p

Notes

 Because
  KEYWORD-ALL recognizes abbreviations, it does not distinguish between
  FORM and FORMAT or between ACCUM and ACCUMULATE.
 This function returns the Unknown value (?) for colors and most data
  types, as well as all unreserved keywords. See the Keyword Index section for a list of ABL reserved and
  unreserved keywords.
• For SpeedScript, all ABL reserved keywords are also reserved
  for SpeedScript.

See also

KEYWORD function




KEYWORD function

Returns a character value that indicates whether
a string is an ABL reserved keyword.

Syntax

expression: A constant, field name, variable name, or expression that results
    in a character string. If expression matches an ABL reserved keyword
    or valid abbreviation of a reserved keyword, the KEYWORD function
    returns the full keyword. If there is no match, the KEYWORD function
    returns the Unknown value (?).

    In some cases, the abbreviation
    for a keyword is also a keyword. For example, if expression is
    "def" (the abbreviation for DEFINE) or "col" (the abbreviation for
    COLUMN), the KEYWORD function returns the values "def" and "col",
    respectively.

    If you use the Run-time client, the KEYWORD
    function always returns the Unknown value (?).

Example

In
this example, the KEYWORD function tests the value of formname.
If the user tries to use a reserved word as a form name, the AVM
displays a message to try again.

r-keywd.p

Notes

 Because
  KEYWORD recognizes abbreviations, it does not distinguish between
  FORM and FORMAT or between ACCUM and ACCUMULATE.
 This function returns the Unknown value (?) for colors
  and most data types, as well as all unreserved keywords. See the Keyword Index for
  a list of ABL reserved and unreserved keywords.
 KEYWORD is less restrictive than the KEYWORD-ALL function. Use
  this function if you do not want to use ABL reserved keywords as
  field names, for example.
 For SpeedScript, all ABL reserved keywords are also reserved
  for SpeedScript.

See also

KEYWORD-ALL function




LASTKEY function

Returns, as an INTEGER value, the integer key
code of the most recent event read from the user (that is, from
the keyboard or mouse) during an interaction with a procedure.

Note: Does not apply to SpeedScript programming.

Syntax

Example

In
this procedure, the user can move through the Customer file and
update certain fields in each of the Customer records. The GO-ON
option tells the procedure to continue on to the following statements
if the user presses F9, F10, or F12.
To determine what action to take, the LASTKEY function compares
the key code of the last key pressed with the key codes F9, F10,
and F12.

r-lastky.p

Notes

 The
  LASTKEY function is double-byte enabled. The LASTKEY function returns
  values only after the input method places the data in the keyboard
  buffer. It returns the key code of the most recent key sequence returned
  from the keyboard buffer. A key sequence is the set of keystrokes necessary
  to generate one character or function key event in ABL.
 If you used a READKEY statement that timed out (you specified
  a number of seconds by using the PAUSE option with the READKEY statement),
  or if a PAUSE statement times out, the value of LASTKEY is -1.
 If you use the PAUSE option with the READKEY statement, the
  value of LASTKEY is the key you press to end the PAUSE.
 When the ABL session starts, the value of LASTKEY is -1. This
  value remains the same until the first input, READKEY, or procedure
  pause occurs. The LASTKEY function is reset to -1 each time you
  return to the Procedure Editor.
 If you read data from a file, LASTKEY is set to the last character
  read from the file. For an INSERT, PROMPT-FOR, SET or UPDATE statement,
  this is always KEYCODE("RETURN"). For a READKEY statement, this
  is the character read from the file. If you reach past the end of
  the file, LASTKEY is -2.
 For more information on keys, see OpenEdge
  Programming Interfaces.

See also

READKEY statement




LIST-EVENTS function

Returns a comma-separated list of the valid
events for a specified object or widget.

Note: Does
not apply to SpeedScript programming.

Syntax

handle: A handle to a valid object or widget. The function returns a
    list of the events that are valid for that object or widget.

platform: A character-string value that specifies a display type. Valid
    values are GUI and TTY. Some events are valid only on certain platforms.
    If you omit the platform parameter, the AVM uses
    the platform for the current session.

Example

The
following example uses the LIST-EVENTS function to populate a selection
list with all the valid events for a widget. When you run this procedure, type? at
any time to see a list of valid events for the widget that currently
has focus.

r-levent.p

See also

LAST-EVENT system handle, LIST-QUERY-ATTRS function, LIST-SET-ATTRS function, LIST-WIDGETS function, VALID-EVENT function




LIST-WIDGETS function

Returns a comma-separated list of objects and
widget types that respond to a specified event.

Note: Does
not apply to SpeedScript programming.

Syntax

event-name: A character-string expression that evaluates to an event name.

platform: A character-string value that specifies a display type. Valid
    values are GUI and TTY. Some events are valid only on certain platforms.
    If you omit the platform parameter, the AVM uses
    the platform for the current session.

Example

The
following example prompts for an event name and then displays a
list of widget types that support that event:

r-lwids.p

See also

LAST-EVENT system handle, LIST-EVENTS function, LIST-QUERY-ATTRS function, LIST-SET-ATTRS function, VALID-EVENT function




LOAD-PICTURE statement

(Windows only; Graphical
interfaces only)

Returns a COM-HANDLE to an OlePictureObject.
You can use this COM-HANDLE to set graphical properties of controls.

Note: Does not apply to SpeedScript programming.

Syntax

image: A CHARACTER expression representing the name of the graphical file.
    This file can have one of the following extensions:.BMP,.EMF,.ICO,.CUR,.DIB. If the
    filename is not fully qualified, LOAD-PICTURE searches for a matching file on the user's
    path. The filename can contain Unicode characters. See Internationalize ABL Applications for more information about Unicode.

Example

The
following program fragment illustrates the use of the LOAD-PICTURE
statement:




MESSAGE-DIGEST function

Hashes any of several types of source data using the specified hashing algorithm, and returns a RAW message digest value whose size and security depends on the algorithm.

Syntax

hash-algorithm: A character string that specifies the hashing algorithm to use to hash
    the data specified by data-to-hash. You can specify
    one of the following options, which are generally in the order of increased security and
    decreased performance:

     "MD5" — RSA Message Digest Hash
      Algorithm, which returns a 16-byte RAW binary message digest value.

      Note: This algorithm is provided for backward compatibility only
      and should not be used in new development. Existing applications and data storage
      should migrate away from this algorithm as soon as possible.
     "SHA-1" — United States
      Government Secure Hash Algorithm, which returns a RAW 20-byte binary message digest
      value.

      Note: This algorithm is provided for backward
      compatibility only and should not be used in new development. Existing
      applications and data storage should migrate away from this algorithm as soon as
      possible.
     "SHA-256" — United States
      Government Secure Hash Algorithm, which returns a RAW 32-byte binary message digest
      value.
     "SHA-512" — United States
      Government Secure Hash Algorithm, which returns a RAW 64-byte binary message digest
      value.
     "HMAC-SHA-1" — United States
      Government HMAC (Hash-based Message Authentication Code) algorithm, which returns a
      RAW 20-byte binary message digest value.

      Note: This algorithm
      is provided for backward compatibility only and should not be used in new
      development. Existing applications and data storage should migrate away from this
      algorithm as soon as possible.
     "HMAC-SHA-256" — United States
      Government HMAC (Hash-based Message Authentication Code) algorithm, which returns a
      RAW 32-byte binary message digest value.
     "HMAC-SHA-384" — United States
      Government HMAC (Hash-based Message Authentication Code) algorithm, which returns a
      RAW 48-byte binary message digest value.
     "HMAC-SHA-512" — United States
      Government HMAC (Hash-based Message Authentication Code) algorithm, which returns a
      RAW 64-byte binary message digest value.

data-to-hash: The source data to hash. The data may be of type CHARACTER, LONGCHAR,
    RAW, or MEMPTR. If the data is a CHARACTER or LONGCHAR value, the
    AVM converts it to UTF-8 (which ensures a consistent value regardless
    of code page settings). To avoid this automatic conversion, specify
    a RAW or MEMPTR value.

hash-key: A key value to use in the hash operation for the hashing algorithms.
    The key may be of type CHARACTER, LONGCHAR, RAW, or MEMPTR. If the key is a CHARACTER
    or LONGCHAR value, the AVM converts it to UTF-8 (which ensures a consistent value
    regardless of code page settings). To avoid this automatic conversion, specify a RAW
    or MEMPTR value. This key value is used along with the source data during the hash
    operation.

    For the HMAC algorithms, it is strongly recommended that you specify
    a hash key (preferably a randomly generated one). If hash-key is not specified, it defaults to the empty string
    ("") if hash-algorithm is an HMAC
    algorithm.

    If either data-to-hash or hash-key is the Unknown value (?), then
    the Unknown value (?) is returned from the
    function.

    If the hash-key value contains a
    null character, the null character is included in the hash operation.

Example

The following example demonstrates how to use the MESSAGE-DIGEST
function.

See also

MD5-DIGEST function, SHA1-DIGEST function




MESSAGE-LINES function

Returns, as an INTEGER value, the number of
lines in the message area at the bottom of the window.

Note: Does not apply to SpeedScript programming.

Syntax

Example

The
following example displays a message on each available message line:

r-messl.p




MESSAGE statement

Displays messages in the message area at the
bottom of the window or in an alert box (or in an output stream—see
the Notes section). By default, an area at the bottom line of the
window is reserved for ABL system messages. An area above that is
reserved for messages you display with the MESSAGE statement.

Syntax

COLOR color-phrase: Displays a message using the color you specify with the COLOR phrase.

    For more information on color-phrase,
    see the COLOR phrase reference
    entry.

    Note: The COLOR phrase does not have any
    effect in a Windows environment.

expression: An expression (a constant, field name, variable name, or expression) whose
    value you want to display in the message area. If expression is
    not character, it is converted to character before it is displayed.
    If you do not use this option, you must use either the SET or UPDATE
    option.

SKIP [ (n) ]: Indicates a number (n) of blank
    lines to insert into the message. The value of n can
    be 0. If you do not specify n, or if n is 0, a new line is started unless the current position
    is already the start of a new line.

    This option only has an effect when the message is
    displayed in an alert box or when the message is written to an output stream.

VIEW-AS ALERT-BOX [ alert-type ]: Specifies that the message is displayed in an alert box rather
    than in the window message area. The value of alert-type determines
    the type of alert box. The possible values are:

     MESSAGE
     QUESTION
     INFORMATION
     ERROR
     WARNING

    The type of alert box affects the visual
    representation of the box.

BUTTONS button-set: Specifies what sets of buttons are available within the alert
    box. The possible button sets are as follows:

     YES-NO
     YES-NO-CANCEL
     OK
     OK-CANCEL
     RETRY-CANCEL

    The name of each button set indicates
    the buttons in that set. For example, YES-NO contains two buttons
    labeled YES and NO; YES-NO-CANCEL contains three buttons labeled
    YES, NO, and CANCEL; OK contains a single button labeled OK. If
    you do not specify a button set, the default is OK.

TITLE title-string: Specifies a value to display in the title bar of the alert box.

SET field: Displays the expression you specified and SETs
    the field or variable you name. (It prompts the user for input and assigns
    the value entered to the field or variable.) You cannot test the
    field with the ENTERED function or the NOT ENTERED function.

UPDATE field: Displays the expression you specified and updates
    the field or variable you name. (It displays the current value of
    the field or variable, prompts for input, and assigns the value
    entered in the field or variable.) You cannot test the field with
    the ENTERED function or the NOT ENTERED function. For an alert box, field must
    be a LOGICAL variable. It sets the default button and returns the
    user's choice. If the alert box has two buttons, they represent
    the values TRUE and FALSE, respectively. If the alert box has three
    buttons, they represent the values TRUE, FALSE, and the Unknown value (?),
    respectively.

AS datatype: Defines field as a variable of type datatype.
    You must use this option or the LIKE option if field has
    not been previously defined.

LIKE field: Defines the field specified in SET or UPDATE as a database field
    or a previously defined variable.

FORMAT string: The format that you want to use to display the field used in the SET or UPDATE option.

    For more information on display formats, see Develop ABL
    Applications.

    If you do not use the FORMAT option,
    ABL uses the defaults shown in the following table.

    Table 1. Default display formats

    The following table shows the default formats for the Other
    expression.

    Table 2. Default data type display formats

AUTO-RETURN: Performs a carriage return when the field that is SET or UPDATEd is
    full.

IN WINDOW window: Specifies the window in which the message is displayed.

Examples

In
this procedure, if you enter the number of a Customer that does
not exist, the procedure displays a message telling you the Customer
does not exist. If the Customer does exist, the procedure displays
the Name and SalesRep of the Customer.

r-msg.p

The following example uses two alert boxes:

r-altbox.p

In r-altbox.p, each time
you select an item from the selection list, the procedure displays
an alert box to ask if you want to delete the customer. If you choose
the No button, then another alert box informs you that the record
was not deleted.

Notes

 The
  MESSAGE statement always sends messages to the current output destination.
  If the INPUT source is the terminal, the AVM displays messages in
  the window and also sends them to the current output destination.
  Compiler error messages also follow this convention.
 If you don't want messages sent to the current output destination, redirect
  the output to a named stream. The AVM never writes messages to a
  named stream.

  If you want to send output to a destination other
  than the terminal, and you do not want messages to appear on the
  terminal (and if you are not using the terminal as an input source),
  use one of the statements in the following table.

  Table 3. Suppressing
  messages to the terminal

  Be sure to use the INPUT CLOSE statement to
  close the input source.
 The AVM automatically clears messages after any user interaction, such
  as a SET, UPDATE, or PAUSE statement, but not after a READKEY statement.
 In Microsoft Windows, the message text in VIEW-AS ALERT-BOX
  is limited to 511 bytes. If the text is longer than 511 bytes, it
  is truncated.
 When you use the MESSAGE SET or MESSAGE UPDATE statement
  to update a field, the AVM does not process any validation criteria defined
  for that field in the database. For example, if the validation criteria for
  the customer.name field is as follows:

  Use this statement:

  The AVM lets you enter any data, including data
  that does not start with the letter a, into the name field.

  Use
  the MESSAGE statement to display a message, but use the SET statement
  or UPDATE statement to let the user change the data in a frame rather
  than in the message area.
 If you are displaying a message to the message line and the combination
  of the text and field you name in a MESSAGE UPDATE statement exceeds
  the length of the message line, the AVM truncates the text to fit
  on the message line. For example:

  Here, the combination of the message text and
  the myvar variable exceeds 80 characters, so the AVM truncates the
  message text.
 Using the MESSAGE statement to display decimal values results in
  truncating the nonsignificant zeros to the right of the decimal
  point. For example:

  The previous procedure displays the following
  message:

  Use functions such as STRING and DECIMAL to
  control the format of a display.
 If the APPL-ALERT-BOXES attribute of the SESSION system handle is
  TRUE, then all your messages are displayed in alert boxes. You can
  also direct all system messages to alert boxes by setting the SYSTEM-ALERT-BOXES
  attribute of the SESSION system handle to true. You can remove the
  message area for a window by setting its MESSAGE-AREA attribute
  to FALSE before it is realized.
 If you use the SET or UPDATE options in a graphical environment, the
  AVM automatically displays the message as an alert box.
 By default, all text in an alert box is displayed on a single
  line. If you want to break lines within the text, you must explicitly
  insert SKIP options into the message.
 If you use the OUTPUT TO statement to divert ABL error and warning
  messages to an output stream, ABL also diverts messages from the
  MESSAGE statement the same way. For more information, see the OUTPUT TO statement reference
  entry.
 The MESSAGE statement does not raise ERROR if the AVM fails
  to resolve an output expression. Instead, the empty string will
  be displayed at the specified output location. However, if the block
  containing the MESSAGE statement contains a CATCH block, then the
  MESSAGE statement will raise ERROR and you can handle that error
  with a compatible CATCH block.
 You can use the MESSAGE statement with an object reference for
  a class instance. In this case, the MESSAGE statement implicitly
  calls the ToString() method of the class to convert the
  specified object reference to a character value before it displays
  the result.
 For SpeedScript, the only valid options are: expression and
  SKIP.

See also

COLOR phrase, DECIMAL function, Format phrase, INTEGER function, MESSAGE-LINES function, STRING function




NEXT-PROMPT statement

Specifies the field in which you want to position
the cursor during the next input operation that involves that field
in a frame.

Note: Does not apply to SpeedScript
programming.

Syntax

field: Indicates the name of the input field in which you want to place
    the cursor the next time the user supplies input to the frame. If
    the field you name is not an input field in the frame, the AVM disregards
    the NEXT-PROMPT statement.

frame-phrase: Specifies the overall layout and processing properties of a
    frame. For more information on frame-phrase,
    see theFrame phrase reference entry.

Example

This
procedure lets you update Customer information. If you do not enter a
value for Customer.Contact, the AVM positions the cursor in the
Contact field when the UPDATE statement is processed following the
UNDO, RETRY of the FOR EACH block.

r-nprmpt.p

Notes

 NEXT-PROMPT
  is useful in an EDITING phrase because it can dynamically reposition
  the cursor depending on input from the user.
 When you have to do complex field checking that you are unable
  to do in a Dictionary validation expression or in a VALIDATE option
  of the Frame phrase, use NEXT-PROMPT to position the cursor after
  detecting an error.
 If the next data entry statement involving the frame specified
  with NEXT-PROMPT does not use the indicated NEXT-PROMPT field, then the
  AVM ignores the NEXT-PROMPT statement.
 The NEXT-PROMPT statement can affect default frame layout. In this procedure, the AVM
  prompts for a and b (in that order):

  r-nextp.p

  However, if you include NEXT-PROMPT b before the update statement, as shown in
  the following procedure, the AVM prompts for b first and a second:

  r-nextp1.p

See also

EDITING phrase, Frame phrase




NOT ENTERED function

Returns a TRUE value if a frame field was not
modified during the last INSERT, PROMPT-FOR, SET, or UPDATE statement.

Note: Does not apply to SpeedScript programming.

Syntax

FRAME frame: The frame name that contains the field named by the field argument.
    If you do not name a frame, the NOT ENTERED function starts with
    the current frame and searches outward until it finds the field
    you name with the field argument.

field: The name of the field or variable you are checking.

Example

This
procedure displays the CustNum, Name,
and CreditLimit for each Customer. For each Customer,
the procedure prompts the user for a new CreditLimit value.
The NOT ENTERED function tests to see if you enter a value. If you
enter a value and it is different from the present value of CreditLimit,
the procedure displays the old and new CreditLimit values.
If you enter the same value or no value, the procedure displays
a message that the CreditLimit has not been changed.

r-nenter.p

Note

If you
use a field or variable referenced with NOT ENTERED in more than one
frame, then the AVM uses the value in the frame most recently introduced in
the procedure. To make sure you are using the appropriate frame,
use the FRAME option with the NOT ENTERED function to reference
a particular frame.

See also

ENTERED function




ON ENDKEY phrase

Defines the processing that occurs when the ENDKEY condition arises during a block. This condition usually occurs when the
user presses END-ERROR during the first
interaction of a block iteration, or any time the user presses a defined END-KEY.

If you use a REPEAT or FOR EACH block,
the default processing for ENDKEY is to undo all the processing in the
current iteration of the block, then leave the block and continue on to any remaining
statements in the routine.

Note: Does not apply to SpeedScript programming.

Syntax

label1: The name of the block whose processing you want to undo. If you do not
    name a block with label1, the AVM undoes the
    processing of the current block.

LEAVE [label2]: Indicates that, after undoing the processing of a block, the AVM
    leaves the block labeled label2. If you do not name a
    block, the AVM leaves the current block. There are restrictions. For example, you cannot
    undo an outer block, but leave only the inner block.

NEXT [label2]: Indicates that, after undoing the processing of a block, the AVM
    executes the next iteration of the block you name with the label2 option. If you do not name a block with the NEXT
    option, the AVM executes the next iteration of the current block.

RETRY [label1]: Indicates that after undoing the processing of a block, the AVM
    repeats the same iteration of the block.

    Because RETRY in a block without user input results in an infinite
    loop, the AVM automatically checks for this possibility and converts a RETRY block into a LEAVE
    block, or a NEXT block if it is an iterating block.
    This behavior is often referred to as infinite loop protection.

RETURN...: Returns to the calling routine, if there is one. The following table
    describes various RETURN options:

    Note: Using RETURN ERROR in a
    user-defined function sets the target variable of the function to the Unknown value
    (?) instead of raising ERROR in the caller. See ABL Error Handling
    for more detail.

Example

In this procedure, if the user presses END-ERROR or END-KEY while changing the CreditLimit field, any
changes made during the current iteration of the block are undone, and the same iteration is
run again. If this procedure did not use the ON ENDKEY phrase and the user
pressed END-ERROR, the procedure ends because
the default ENDKEY action is UNDO, LEAVE. After leaving
the FOR EACH block, the procedure ends because there are no more
statements.

r-endky.p

See also

ON ERROR phrase, ON QUIT phrase, ON STOP phrase, RETURN statement, RETURN-VALUE function, UNDO statement




ON QUIT phrase

Describes the processing that occurs when a QUIT statement
is executed during a block. By default, the QUIT statement saves the
current transaction and then returns to the operating system or to the tool from which the
routine was invoked (such as the OpenEdge Editor).

Note: Does not apply to SpeedScript programming.

Syntax

UNDO [label1]: Indicates that the specified block is undone. If you do not specify
    the UNDO option, the current transaction is committed
    when the QUIT statement executes.

LEAVE [label2]: Indicates that after committing or undoing the transaction, the AVM
    leaves the block labeled label2. If you do not name a
    block, the AVM leaves the current block.

NEXT [label2]: Indicates that after committing or undoing the transaction, the AVM
    executes the next iteration of the block you name with the label2 option. If you do not name a block with the NEXT option, the AVM executes the next iteration of the current block.

RETRY [label1]: Indicates that after committing or undoing the processing of a block,
    the AVM repeats the same iteration of the block that was undone or committed.

    Because RETRY in a block without
    user input results in an infinite loop, the AVM automatically checks for this
    possibility and converts a RETRY block into a
    LEAVE block, or a NEXT block if it is an iterating block. This behavior is often referred to
    as infinite loop protection.

RETURN...: Returns to the calling routine, if there is one. The following table
    describes various RETURN options:

    Note: Using RETURN ERROR in a
    user-defined function sets the target variable of the function to the Unknown value
    (?) instead of raising ERROR in the caller. See ABL Error Handling
    for more detail.

See also

ON ENDKEY phrase, ON ERROR phrase, ON STOP phrase, QUIT statement, RETURN statement, RETURN-VALUE function, UNDO statement




ON statement

The ON statement specifies a trigger for one or more
events or redefines terminal keys for an application.

Syntax

event-list: A comma-separated list of user-interface or developer events for which
    you want to define a trigger. If any of the specified events occurs for any of the
    specified widgets, the trigger executes.

    For a list of valid events
    for each widget type, see the reference page for that widget type. For information on
    all user interface events, see the Handle-based Object Events Reference.

    In batch mode (running with the -b startup parameter) and when running on an application
    server, the ON statement supports only the following events:

     PROCEDURE-COMPLETE
     READ-RESPONSE
     CONNECT
     Developer events (U1 to U10, and CLOSE)

      The
      ten miscellaneous developer events (U1 to U10) have no standard meaning or
      action. They are reserved for an ABL developer to use for associating a trigger
      with some event that only happens programmatically using the
      APPLY statement. They have nothing to do with a particular
      user action and have no built-in significance. The CLOSE event has these same
      characteristics and only occurs when specified with the APPLY
      statement.

      OpenEdge clients running in batch mode
      process these events just like non-batch clients do.

widget-list: A comma-separated list of widgets or procedure handles to which the
    event is applied. See the Widget phrase reference
    entry for more information on referencing widgets.

    If a specified
    event occurs for any of the specified widgets, the trigger executes.
    If you specify a list of widgets, all events specified must be user-interface
    events.

ANYWHERE: You can specify ANYWHERE either with a list of
    widgets or instead of a list of widgets. Without a list of widgets,
    ANYWHERE specifies that the trigger executes when one of the
    specified events occurs for any widget that does not already have a specific trigger for
    that event. This lets you define a default trigger for the event within the application.
    With a list of widgets, ANYWHERE specifies that the trigger executes
    when one of the specified events occurs for any specified widget or for any contained
    widget that does not already have a specific trigger for that event. This lets you set
    up a default trigger for a frame or window.

event: A database event: CREATE, DELETE, FIND, WRITE or ASSIGN. If the
    specified event occurs for the specified table or field, the trigger executes. For
    database events, you can specify only one event.

database-object [ referencing-phrase ]: The name of a database table or field to which the event is applied. If you specify a
    database-object, the event specified must be a database event. You
    cannot specify a metaschema table or field (a table or field named with an initial
    underscore) as the database-object.

    The
    referencing-phrase is valid only for WRITE and ASSIGN triggers.
    For WRITE triggers you can specify a name for the record before the WRITE operation
    and a name for the record after the WRITE operation. This allows you to reference both
    versions of the record within the trigger. This is the syntax for WRITE
    trigger:

    For an ASSIGN trigger, you can specify a name for the old field value. This
    is the syntax:

OVERRIDE: Specifies that the database trigger you are defining overrides the
    schema trigger for the same event. You can override a schema trigger only if it is
    defined as overridable in the Data Dictionary. If you do not use the
    OVERRIDE option, then the session trigger executes first and then the
    schema trigger.

trigger-block: A trigger block is either a single ABL statement or a set of
    statements grouped by DO and END statements. The
    trigger block is executed when one of the specified events is applied to one of the
    specified widgets or tables.

REVERT: If you specify this option, any non-persistent trigger defined in this procedure for
    the event is reverted. If a trigger had also been defined for the event in a previous
    procedure, that previous trigger again takes effect. The AVM ignores any attempt to
    revert a persistent trigger.

PERSISTENT RUN procedure[ (input-parameters) ]: Specifies a persistent trigger; that is, a trigger that remains in effect after the
    current procedure terminates. Normally, a trigger remains in effect only until the
    procedure or trigger in which it is defined ends. You can specify a persistent trigger
    only for user-interface events. A persistent trigger must be a procedure specified by
    procedure. The trigger procedure can take one or more input
    parameters; it cannot have any output parameters. The parameters of the trigger
    procedure are evaluated when you define the trigger; they are not re-evaluated
    when the trigger executes.

key-label: The label of the key for which you want to define a specific action.
    See OpenEdge Programming Interfaces for a list of key
    labels.

    On UNIX, all of the special ABL keys are defined in the
    PROTERMCAP file supplied with ABL. If the key for which you are
    defining an action is not already in PROTERMCAP, you must add a
    definition for that key. Keys that you can name that do not require a
    PROTERMCAP definition are CTRL, RETURN, BACKSPACE, TAB, and DEL.

    In Windows, keys are
    predefined as described in the handling user input section of OpenEdge Programming Interfaces.

key-function: The action you want the AVM to take when the user presses the key associated with
    key-label. The key-function value can be one of
    the key functions listed in the following table.

    Table 1. Valid key functions

Examples

The
following example defines a WRITE trigger for the customer table:

r-oncst.p

The trigger compares the Customer record before the write
with the Customer record after the write. If the city has changed and the
postal code has not changed, the trigger displays a message and cancels the write
operation.

The following example uses the ON statement to set up a
trigger for two buttons:

r-widget.p

The following procedure sets up mappings for GO, HELP,
and END and defines CTRL+X to ring the terminal bell:

r-onstmt.p

Notes

 If you use the ON statement to redefine terminal keys,
  the new definitions remain in effect to the end of the session or until another
  ON statement changes the definition.
 A trigger defined with the ON statement remains in
  effect until one of the following occurs:
• Another ON statement defines another trigger (or
    REVERT) for the same event and widget
• For a non-persistent trigger, the procedure or trigger block in
    which the ON statement appears terminates
 Although each widget type responds with default system actions to a
  limited set of valid events, you can specify any event for any widget and execute the
  trigger using the APPLY statement. If the event is not a valid event for
  the widget type, the specified trigger executes, but no default system action occurs for
  the widget. You can use this feature to write triggers for procedure handles that do not
  otherwise respond to events.
 If event-list includes a MENU-DROP
  event for a menu or submenu, do not interact with the window manager from within the
  trigger-block. Doing so causes the window manager to
  lose control of the system, forcing you to reboot or restart the window manager. Actions
  to avoid include any window system input/output (I/O) or any lengthy processing,
  especially in statements that cause process interruptions, such as the
  PAUSE statement with or without I/O. These also include actions that
  can generate a warning or error message, forcing window system output. Use the
  NO-ERROR option on supported statements to help avoid this situation.
  Otherwise, check valid values, especially for run-time resources like handles, to prevent
  the AVM from displaying unexpected messages.
 For SpeedScript, the only valid uses of the ON
  statement are specifying a trigger for a database event or for specifying a trigger for a
  WEB-NOTIFY event (the ON "WEB-NOTIFY" ANYWHERE syntax).
 The ON statement only works with ABL events. You
  cannot use the ON statement to interact with.NET object events.

See also

APPLY statement, Developer events, Handle-based Object Events Reference,
WAIT-FOR statement (ABL only), Widget phrase




PROMPT-FOR statement

Requests input and places that input in the screen buffer (frame).

The PROMPT-FOR statement is a combination of the following statements:

 ENABLE — Enables the specified field-level widgets (in this case fill-in fields) for input
 WAIT-FOR — Blocks for input and processes all ABL events until a specific ABL event occurs, in this case the GO universal key function event
 DISABLE — Disables the specified field-level widgets (in this case fill-in fields) for input

Note: Does not apply to SpeedScript programming.

Data movement

Syntax

STREAM stream: Specifies the name of a stream. If you do not name a stream, the AVM
    uses the unnamed stream. See the DEFINE STREAM statement reference entry and the topics on alternate I/O sources in OpenEdge Programming Interfaces for more information on
    streams.

STREAM-HANDLE handle: Specifies the handle to a stream. If handle it is not a valid handle to a stream, the AVM generates a run-time
    error. Note that stream handles are not valid for the unnamed streams. See the topics on
    alternate I/O sources in OpenEdge Programming Interfaces
    for more information on streams and stream handles.

UNLESS-HIDDEN: Restricts PROMPT-FOR to fields whose HIDDEN attribute is FALSE.

field: Specifies the name of the field or variable whose value you
    want to enter and store in the screen buffer. Remember that the
    PROMPT-FOR statement only accepts input and stores it in the screen
    buffer. The underlying record buffer of a field or variable is unaffected.

    This field parameter
    is demonstrated in the following program:

    The program does the following:

     Stores
      the initial value of ix in a record buffer
     Prompts for a new value of ix, and stores the new value in a
      screen buffer
     Displays the value in the record buffer, retrieves the value
      in the screen buffer, then displays that

    In the case
    of array fields, array elements with constant subscripts are treated
    just like any other field. Array fields with no subscripts or in
    the FORM statement are expanded as though you had typed in the implicit elements.
    See the DISPLAY statement reference
    entry for information on how array fields with expressions as subscripts
    are handled.

format-phrase: Specifies one or more frame attributes for a field, variable,
    or expression. For more information on format-phrase,
    see the Format phrase reference entry.

WHEN expression: Prompts for the field only when expression has
    a value of TRUE. Here, expression is a field
    name, variable name, or expression that evaluates to a LOGICAL value.

TEXT: Defines a group of character fields or variables (including
    array elements) to use automatic word-wrap. The TEXT option works
    only with character fields. When you insert data in the middle of
    a TEXT field, the AVM wraps data that follows into the next TEXT
    field, if necessary. If you delete data from the middle of a TEXT
    field, the AVM wraps data that follows into the empty area.

    If
    you enter more characters than the format for the field allows,
    the AVM discards the extra characters. The character fields must
    have formats of the form x(n). A blank in the first column of a
    line marks the beginning of a paragraph. Lines within a paragraph
    are treated as a group and will not wrap into other paragraphs.

    The
    following table lists the keys you can use within a TEXT field and their
    actions.

    Table 1. Key
    actions in a TEXT field

    In this procedure, the s-com,
    or Order Comments field is a TEXT field. Run the
    following procedure and enter text in the field to see how the TEXT
    option works:

    r-text.p

constant [ AT n | TO n ][ VIEW-AS TEXT ][ FGCOLOR expression ]

[ BGCOLOR expression ][ FONT expression ]: Specifies a literal value that you want displayed in the frame.
    If you use the AT option, n is the column in
    which you want to start the display. If you use the TO option, n is
    the column in which you want to end the display. You can use the
    BGCOLOR, FGCOLOR, and FONT options to define the colors and font
    in which the constant is displayed. If you use the VIEW-AS TEXT
    option, the constant is displayed as a text widget rather than a
    fill-in field.

SPACE [ (n) ]: Identifies the number (n) of blank spaces
    to insert after the field is displayed. The n can
    be 0. If the number of spaces you specify is more than the spaces
    left on the current line of the frame, a new line is started and
    any extra spaces are discarded. If you do not use this option or n,
    one space is inserted between items in the frame.

SKIP [ (n) ]: Identifies the number (n) of blank lines
    to insert after the field is displayed. The n can
    be 0. If you do not use this option, the AVM does not skip a line
    between expressions unless the expressions do not fit on one line.
    If you use the SKIP option, but do not specify n,
    or if n is 0, the AVM starts a new line unless
    it is already at the beginning of a new line.

^: Tells the AVM to ignore an input field when input is being read
    from a file. Also, the following statement will read a line from
    an input file and ignore that line. This is an efficient way to
    skip over lines.

GO-ON (key-label...): The GO-ON option tells the AVM to execute the GO action when the
    user presses any of the keys listed. The keys you list are used
    in addition to keys that perform the GO action by default (such
    as F1 or RETURN on
    the last field) or because of ON statements.

    When you list a
    key in the GO-ON option, you use the keyboard label of that key.
    For example, if you want the AVM to take the GO action when the
    user presses F2, you use the statement
    GO-ON(F2). If you list more than
    one key, separate them with spaces, not commas.

IN WINDOW window: Specifies the window in which the prompt occurs. The expression window must
    resolve to a handle to a window.

frame-phrase: Specifies the overall layout and processing properties of a
    frame. For more information on frame-phrase,
    see the Frame phrase reference entry.

editing-phrase: Supported only for backward compatibility.

    Identifies processing
    to take place as each keystroke is entered. This is the syntax for editing-phrase:

    For more information on editing-phrase,
    see the EDITING phrase reference entry.

record: The name of a record buffer. All of the fields in the record will be
    processed exactly as if you prompted for each of them individually.

    To use PROMPT-FOR with a record in a table defined for multiple databases, you must
    qualify the record's table name with the database name. See the record definition in the Record phrase reference entry for more
    information.

EXCEPT field: Affects all fields except those listed in the EXCEPT phrase.

Examples

The r-prmpt.p procedure
requests a customer number from the user and stores that number
in the screen buffer. The FIND statement reads a record from the
Customer database table.

r-prmpt.p

The r-prmpt2.p procedure
requests the initials of a sales representative and stores those
initials in the screen buffer. The FIND statement uses the initials
stored in the screen buffer to read a record from the SalesRep database
table. After finding the record, the procedure displays sales rep
information.

r-prmpt2.p

Notes

 PROMPT-FOR
  puts user-supplied data into a screen buffer. It does not put any
  data into a record buffer. Therefore, if you want to use the data
  in the screen buffer, you must use the INPUT function to refer to the
  data in the screen buffer or use the ASSIGN statement to move the data
  from the screen buffer into a record buffer. You can also use the USING
  option to FIND a record with the screen data index value.
 When ABL compiles a procedure, it designs all the frames used
  by that procedure. When it encounters a PROMPT-FOR statement, ABL
  designs the display of the prompt fields. When the procedure is
  run, the PROMPT-FOR statement puts data into those fields.
 If you are getting input from a device other than the terminal,
  and the number of characters read by the PROMPT-FOR statement for
  a particular field or variable exceeds the display format for that
  field or variable, the AVM returns an error. However, if you are
  setting a logical field that has a format of "y/n" and the data
  file contains a value of YES or NO, the AVM converts that value
  to "y" or "n".
 In the context of the.NET blocking method, System.Windows.Forms.Application:Run(), if you execute the PROMPT-FOR
  statement for a non-modal ABL window from within a user-defined function or non-VOID
  method, this statement raises the STOP condition. For more information on the.NET Application:Run() method, see the reference entry for the
  WAIT-FOR statement (.NET and ABL).

See also

DEFINE STREAM statement, EDITING phrase, Format phrase, Frame phrase, Stream object handle




PUT CURSOR statement

(Character only)

Makes
the cursor visible on the screen at a specified position.

In
data-handling statements such as UPDATE, SET, PROMPT-FOR, and INSERT,
the AVM handles cursor display so the user knows where the cursor
is located in the window. However, if data is entered through the
READKEY statement, and that statement is not part of an EDITING
phrase, you might want to turn the cursor on so the user can see
the location of the cursor while entering data.

Note: Does
not apply to SpeedScript programming.

Syntax

OFF: Ends display of the cursor.

ROW expression: The row in which you want to display the cursor. In the ROW option, expression is
    a constant, field name, variable name, or expression whose value
    is an integer that indicates the row where you want to display the
    cursor. If you do not use the ROW option, PUT CURSOR does not reposition
    the cursor. Similarly, if you specify a ROW that is outside the
    screen area, the AVM does not reposition the cursor.

COLUMN expression: The column in which you want to display the cursor. In the COLUMN
    option, expression is a constant, field name,
    variable name, or expression whose value is an integer that indicates
    the column where you want to display the cursor. If you do not use the
    COLUMN option, PUT CURSOR does not reposition the cursor. Similarly,
    if you specify a COLUMN that is outside the windows area, the AVM
    does not repositions the cursor.

Example

The
following procedure uses PUT CURSOR to make the cursor visible in an
editor window. When you run the procedure, you see a frame in a
window. You can type text into this frame. The procedure reads each
key you enter and takes the appropriate action. Then PUT CURSOR
places the cursor in the first row and the first column in the editing
frame when you first run the procedure. As you type, the cursor
continues to be visible. As the procedure passes through the REPEAT
loop for each keystroke, it takes action based on each keystroke and
moves the cursor as it takes the action.

The procedure stores
the information you type in the comments array, one character at
a time. When you finish typing, press GO.
The procedure displays the array where the AVM stored the typed
information.

r-cursor.p

Notes

 You
  must use the PUT SCREEN statement to display data when you use the
  PUT CURSOR statement. You also have to define a variable for the
  cursor position, and increment it as the AVM reads the keys entered
  by the user if you want the cursor to move as the user types.
 The PUT CURSOR statement displays the cursor until you use the PUT
  CURSOR OFF statement to stop the display.
• Because a cursor is always displayed in an EDITING phrase, using
  the PUT CURSOR statement in an EDITING phrase (or if you have not issued
  a PUT CURSOR OFF statement before the phrase) might cause errors.

See also

PUT SCREEN statement




PUT SCREEN statement

(Character only)

Displays
a character expression at a specified location on a screen, overlaying
any other data that might be displayed at that location.

This
statement is supported only for backward compatibility.

Note: Does not apply to SpeedScript programming.

Syntax

COLOR color-phrase: The video attributes you want to use to display an expression.
    When you display data in the first column of a spacetaking terminal,
    the AVM does not display that data with color. If you are displaying
    data in a column other than column 1, the AVM displays the color
    attribute in the column prior to the current column (current column
    minus 1).

    For more information, see the COLOR phrase reference
    entry.

COLUMN expression: The column in which you want to display an expression. In the COLUMN
    option, expression is a constant, field name,
    variable name, or expression whose value is an integer that indicates
    the column in which you want to display an expression. If you do
    not use the COLUMN option, PUT SCREEN displays the expression at column
If you specify a COLUMN that is outside the screen area, the AVM
    disregards the PUT SCREEN statement.

ROW expression: The row in which you want to display an expression. In the ROW option, expression is
    a constant, field name, variable name, or expression whose value
    is an integer that indicates the row you want to display an expression.
    If you do not use the ROW option, PUT SCREEN displays the expression
    at row 1. If you specify a ROW that is outside the screen area,
    the AVM disregards the PUT SCREEN statement.

expression: A constant, field name, variable name, or expression that results
    in a character string. The character string can contain control
    characters and can be as long as you want.

Example

The r-putscr.p procedure
determines whether a Customer's current balance is above or below
If it is above 0, they have a credit; if it is below 0, they
owe money. The label of the balance column is changed based on whether
they have a credit or owe money.

r-putscr.p

If the Customer has a credit (balance < 0)
the first PUT SCREEN statement displays the value of bal-label (which
is Customer Credit) in the same color as you see system MESSAGES
(usually reverse video).

If the Customer owes money (balance
0) the second PUT SCREEN statement displays the value of bal-label
(which is Current Balance) in normal display mode.

Notes

 Values
  displayed by PUT SCREEN are not the same as values that belong to
  frames. Thus those expressions can be overwritten by other displays
  or hides. Ensure that values displayed by PUT SCREEN do not overwrite
  frame fields that are used later for data entry.
 If you use the PUT SCREEN statement in a procedure that runs
  in batch or background mode, the AVM disregards the PUT SCREEN statement.
 The HIDE ALL statement clears the entire screen, including any
  data displayed by a PUT SCREEN statement.
 If you use the PUT SCREEN statement to display data in the message area,
  the HIDE MESSAGES statement does not necessarily clear that data.

See also

COLOR phrase, DISPLAY statement, HIDE statement, PUT statement




RADIO-SET phrase

Describes a radio set representation for a
field or variable. The RADIO-SET phrase is an option of the VIEW-AS
phrase.

Note: Does not apply to SpeedScript programming.

Syntax

HORIZONTAL: Specifies that the radio buttons are aligned horizontally. Vertical alignment
    is the default.

VERTICAL: Specifies that the radio buttons are aligned vertically. Because
    this is the default alignment, you do not have to supply this attribute.

EXPAND: Pads all button labels to be the width of the widest radio button
    label. This ensures that the buttons are evenly spaced. Use this
    option only in conjunction with the HORIZONTAL option. If you do
    not specify this option, the individual radio buttons are spaced
    evenly if the lengths of the labels vary.

size-phrase: Specifies the outside dimensions of the radio-set widget. This
    is the syntax for size-phrase:

    For further information, see the SIZE phrase reference
    entry.

RADIO-BUTTONS label, value[, label, value]...: A list of radio buttons whose selections are mutually exclusive.
    Each button is composed of a label and value pair. The label is
    a character string that is the label for the radio button. The value is
    the value to be assigned to the field or variable if the radio button
    is selected; value must be a valid value for
    the field or variable.

    You can designate a character within each label as
    a navigation mnemonic in Windows. Indicate the character by preceding
    it with an ampersand (&). When the radio set is displayed, the
    mnemonic is underlined. The user can choose to the specific button
    by pressing ALT and the underlined
    letter.

    Note: If two or more buttons of a radio
    set use the same label, the AVM uses only the value of the first
    button.

TOOLTIP tooltip: Allows you to define a help text message for a text field or
    text variable. The AVM automatically displays this text when the
    user pauses the mouse button over a text field or text variable
    for which a tooltip is defined.

    You can add or change the TOOLTIP
    option at any time. If TOOLTIP is set to "" or the Unknown value (?),
    then the tooltip is removed. No tooltip is the default. The TOOLTIP
    option is supported in Windows only.

Example

This
procedure displays a radio set that consists of three radio buttons
and prompts the user to select one of the buttons. When the user
selects the button, the program displays the text "This event occurred
on" and the date value of selected button.

r-radio1.p

See also

VIEW-AS phrase




READKEY statement

Reads one keystroke from an input source and
sets the value of LASTKEY to the keycode of that keystroke. Use
the READKEY statement when you want to look at each keystroke a
user makes and take some action based on that keystroke.

Note: Does not apply to SpeedScript programming.

Syntax

STREAM stream: Specifies the name of a stream. If you do not name a stream,
    the AVM uses the unnamed stream. See the DEFINE STREAM statement.

STREAM-HANDLE handle: Specifies the handle to a stream. If handle it is not a valid handle to a stream, the AVM generates a run-time
    error. Note that stream handles are not valid for the unnamed streams. See the topics on
    alternate I/O sources in OpenEdge Programming Interfaces
    for more information on streams and stream handles.

PAUSE n: The READKEY statement waits up to n seconds
    for a keystroke. You can choose a whole or a fractional value for
    the time-out interval. If the time-out period you specify is a fractional
    value, the value is rounded to the nearest whole millisecond. If
    you do not press a key during that amount of time, READKEY ends,
    and sets the value in LASTKEY to -1.

    PAUSE 0 causes READKEY to
    immediately return a value. If no character is available, READKEY
    sets the value of LASTKEY to -1. Use this form of READKEY to do
    polling through UNIX pipes or terminal ports.

Example

In
the following procedure, when the user presses a key, the READKEY statement
reads the keystroke and stores the character code value of that
key (the key code) as the value of LASTKEY. The CHR function converts
the character code value into a character value. If the character
value is a Y, the AVM deletes the Customer. KEYFUNCTION determines
the function of the LASTKEY. If that function is END-ERROR, the
AVM exits the block, ending the procedure.

r-readky.p

Notes

 If
  you use READKEY, it intercepts any input from the user. Thus no
  widgets receive the input. To pass the input to a widget, you must
  use the APPLY statement.
 The READKEY function is double-byte enabled. The READKEY function
  returns values only after the input method places the data in the keyboard
  buffer. It returns the key code of the most recent key sequence returned
  from the keyboard buffer. A key sequence is the set of keystrokes necessary
  to generate one character or function key event in ABL.
 If the current input source is a file, then READKEY reads the
  next character from that file and returns the value of that character
  (1 to 255) to LASTKEY. READKEY does not translate periods (.) in
  the file into the ENDKEY value. It does translate end of line into
  RETURN (13), but it cannot read any special keys, such as function
  keys.

  When the AVM reaches the end of the file, it sets the value
  of LASTKEY to -2, but does not close the input file. At that point,
  an APPLY LASTKEY (same as APPLY -2) raises the ENDKEY condition.
 If the current input source is a UNIX pipe, any timer you set
  with the PAUSE option might expire before READKEY can read a character.
  If so, LASTKEY is set to -1.
 If the last key typed is an invalid character sequence, READKEY
  sets the value of LASTKEY to -1.
 READKEY is included in the set of statements that are considered input
  statements. If a block contains an input statement, the AVM assumes that the next block
  iteration may be working with different data and therefore the AVM does not do infinite
  loop protection. Therefore, having READKEY in a block will allow UNDO, RETRY to take
  effect, whereas without it (or any other input statement), it would be changed to UNDO,
  LEAVE in order to avoid an infinite loop.
 For more information on monitoring keystrokes, see OpenEdge Programming Interfaces.
 In the context of the.NET blocking method, System.Windows.Forms.Application:Run(), if you execute the READKEY statement
  for a non-modal ABL window from within a user-defined function or non-VOID method, this
  statement raises the STOP condition. For more information on the.NET Application:Run() method, see the reference entry for the
  WAIT-FOR statement (.NET and ABL). For more information
  on editing blocks, see the EDITING phrase entry.

See also

DEFINE STREAM statement, EDITING phrase, LASTKEY function, Stream object handle




RGB-VALUE function

Returns an INTEGER value that represents a
combination of a red, green, and blue color value. This function
allows you to define an arbitrary color, expanding beyond those
colors defined in the color table.

Note: Does
not apply to SpeedScript programming.

Syntax

redval, greenval, blueval: Identifies red, green, and blue color values which can be combined to
    define a unique color value.

Example

The
following code fragment shows how to set the background color of
an ActiveX control:

For detailed information on programming ActiveX Controls, see OpenEdge Programming Interfaces.

Notes

The
RGB-VALUE function is generally most useful when it is used with ActiveX
Controls.

See also

COLOR-TABLE system handle




SCREEN-LINES function

Returns, as an INTEGER value, the number of
lines you can use to display frames. This value omits the space
used by the message area and status area.

Note: Does
not apply to SpeedScript programming.

Syntax

Example

Here,
a different number of customer records is displayed depending on the
number returned by the SCREEN-LINES function:

r-scrnln.p




SCROLL statement

Moves data up or down in a frame with multiple
rows. Use the SCROLL statement to scroll data up or down when you
add or delete a line in a frame.

This statement is supported
only for backward compatibility.

Note: Does not
apply to SpeedScript programming.

Syntax

FROM-CURRENT: Scrolls UP or DOWN rows of data at or below the current cursor
    location. When scrolling UP, a new line opens at the bottom of the frame.
    When scrolling DOWN, a new line opens at the current cursor location.
    For example:

    If you do
    not use the FROM-CURRENT option, then the entire frame scrolls up
    or down and the newly opened line appears at the top or bottom of
    a frame, respectively. FROM-CURRENT limits scrolling from the current
    cursor position to the bottom of the frame.

UP: Scrolls rows of data up and off the frame and opens a line
    at the bottom of the frame. UP is the default. For example:

DOWN: Scrolls rows of data down and off the frame and opens a line
    at the top of the frame. For example, the Original Frame in the
    next example shows four rows of data. The highlighted bar is the
    current cursor position and the frame is a scrolling frame. On the
    right, the SCROLL FROM-CURRENT DOWN statement opens a line in the
    frame at the current cursor location and moves the other rows down
    and off the frame. For example:

    In
    the next example, the SCROLL DOWN statement opens a line at the
    top of the frame and moves the other rows of data down and off the frame:

frame-phrase: Specifies the overall layout and processing properties of a
    frame. For more information on frame-phrase,
    see the Frame phrase reference entry.

Examples

This
procedure displays Customer information and lets you try each scrolling
option from a menu of selections:

r-scroll.p

The next procedure creates a scrolling frame
of five iterations. The frame displays the CustNum, Name, Address,
and City for each Customer. The status default
message displays "Enter C to create, D to delete" as long as the
procedure is running. You use arrow keys to move the highlighted cursor
bar through the database, and to add or delete Customers from the
database. The CHOOSE statement lets you easily create this style
menu. See the CHOOSE statement reference
entry for more information.

r-chose1.p

The SCROLL statement controls the scrolling
action in the frame when you create and delete customers. To add
a customer to the database, type C. Create
opens a line in the frame and the SCROLL statement moves data below
the line down. Then you type the new customer information into the
frame. Type D to delete a Customer from the
database. When you delete a Customer, all rows below the deleted
Customer row move up one row.

You can perform the same function
with fewer statements if you do not use the SCROLL statement. You
can substitute the r-chose1.p procedure segment
with the r-chose2.p to perform the delete function.

r-chose2.p

You can see the entire r-chose2.p procedure
on-line. This example only shows the portion that is different from
the r-chose1.p procedure.

The r-cuhelp.p procedure
provides help for the CustNum field when a user
presses HELP. It displays five Customer
names and numbers. The user can press (UP-ARROW),
(DOWN-ARROW), to scroll down, or (RETURN) to exit.

r-cuhelp.p

See also

CHOOSE statement, Frame phrase




SELECTION-LIST phrase

Describes the selection-list representation
of a field or variable. A selection-list is a scrollable list of
values. The SELECTION-LIST phrase is an option of the VIEW-AS phrase.

Note: Does not apply to SpeedScript programming.

Syntax

SINGLE: Specifies that on input the user can select only a single item
    from the list. This is the default. The value of the selection-list
    is set to the character-string item the user selects.

MULTIPLE: Specifies that on input the user can select one or more items
    from the item list. The value of the selection-list is set to a
    comma-separated list of character-string items that the user selects.

NO-DRAG: Specifies that the user cannot select items by simultaneously holding
    down the mouse select button and dragging the mouse through the
    list.

    If you specify NO-DRAG then the DRAG-ENABLED attribute
    is set to FALSE. You can set the DRAG-ENABLED attribute only before
    the selection-list is realized. The default is TRUE.

    In Windows,
    DRAG-ENABLED is always TRUE and the NO-DRAG option is ignored.

LIST-ITEMS item-list: Specifies the items to appear in the list. item-list represents
    a comma-separated list of character-string constants.

LIST-ITEM-PAIRS item-pair-list: Specifies a list of label-value pairs. Each pair represents
    a label and value of the associated field or variable. When the
    selection-list appears, it displays each pair's label. Then, if
    the user selects a label, the AVM assigns the corresponding value
    to the field or variable. The syntax for item-pair-list is
    as follows:

    label: A character string representing the label of the field or variable.

    value: A valid value for the field or variable.

SCROLLBAR-VERTICAL: Specifies that a scroll bar is displayed along side the selection-list. The
    user can browse through a long selection-list by manipulating the slider.

SCROLLBAR-HORIZONTAL: Specifies that a scroll bar is displayed along the bottom of
    the selection-list. The user can view long list items by manipulating
    the slider.

size-phrase: Specifies the outside dimensions of the selection-list widget. Following
    is the syntax for the size-phrase:

    For more information, see the SIZE phrase reference
    entry.

INNER-CHARS cols INNER-LINES rows: Specifies the number of character positions visible in each
    line of the selection-list and the number of lines visible in the
    selection-list. Both cols and rows must
    be integer constants.

    Note that the values you supply for INNER-CHARS
    and INNER-LINES specify only the size of the list, not the overall
    size of the selection-list widget. The overall size is determined
    by the size of the list plus the sizes of the margin and border
    heights and widths.

SORT: Specifies that list items are sorted prior to display.

TOOLTIP tooltip: Allows you to define a help text message for a text field
    or text variable. The AVM automatically displays this text when
    the user pauses the mouse button over a text field or text variable
    for which a tooltip is defined.

    You can add or change the
    TOOLTIP option at any time. If TOOLTIP is set to "" or the Unknown value (?),
    then the tooltip is removed. No tooltip is the default. The TOOLTIP
    option is supported in Windows only.

Example

The r-select.p procedure
prompts the user for a directory name and then populates a selection-list
with the contents of the specified directory. After the user selects
an item from the selection-list, the procedure echoes back the selection.

The
procedure uses the INPUT FROM statement to read the contents of the
user-specified directory and creates a comma-separated list of all
the file and directory names in the directory. It then assigns the
comma-separated list to the LIST-ITEMS attribute of the selection-list.
Because an assignment to an attribute depends on the widget being
located in a frame, the DEFINE FRAME statement is used to locate
the selection-list.

r-select.p

Notes

 When
  the selection-list appears, if it contains the value of the associated
  field or variable, that value is initially highlighted. Otherwise, no
  value in the selection-list is initially highlighted.
 The LIST-ITEMS option of the SELECTION-LIST phrase requires
  a list of quoted items ("a", "b", "c"), whereas the LIST-ITEMS attribute
  of a selection-list requires a quoted list of items ("a, b, c").
  Similarly, the LIST-ITEM-PAIRS option of the SELECTION-LIST phrase
  requires a list of quoted items ("a", "1", "b", "2", "c", "3");
  whereas the LIST-ITEM-PAIRS attribute of a selection-list requires
  a quoted list of items ("a, 1, b, 2, c, 3").
 If you specify the SORT option for a selection-list, then any
  items you add with ADD-FIRST, ADD-LAST, or INSERT methods are added
  in sorted order rather than the order you specify.
 In Windows, you can use a mnemonic to transfer focus to the
  selection-list.

See also

SIZE phrase, VIEW-AS phrase




SET statement

Requests input, and then puts the data in the screen buffer frame and in the specified fields or variables. The SET statement is a combination of these statements:

 PROMPT-FOR - Prompts the user for data and puts that data into the screen buffer
 ASSIGN - Moves data from the screen buffer to the record buffer

Note: Does not apply to SpeedScript programming.

Data movement

Syntax

STREAM stream: Specifies the name of a stream. If you do not name a stream, the AVM
    uses the unnamed stream. See the DEFINE STREAM statement reference entry and the topics on alternate I/O sources in OpenEdge Programming Interfaces for more information on
    streams.

STREAM-HANDLE handle: Specifies the handle to a stream. If handle it is not a valid handle to a stream, the AVM generates a run-time
    error. Note that stream handles are not valid for the unnamed streams. See the topics on
    alternate I/O sources in OpenEdge Programming Interfaces
    for more information on streams and stream handles.

UNLESS-HIDDEN: Restricts SET to fields whose HIDDEN attribute is FALSE.

field: Represents the name of the field or variable whose value
    you want to store in the screen buffer and in the field or variable.

    In
    the case of array fields, array elements with constant subscripts
    are treated as any other field. Array fields with no subscripts
    are expanded as though you typed in the implicit elements. See the DISPLAY statement reference
    entry for information on how the AVM handles array fields with expressions
    as subscripts.

view-as-phrase: Specifies the widget used to represent the field. For more information
    on view-as-phrase, see the VIEW-AS phrase reference
    entry.

format-phrase: Specifies one or more frame attributes for a field, variable,
    or expression. For more information on format-phrase,
    see the Format phrase reference entry.

WHEN expression: Sets the field only when expression has a
    value of TRUE. An expression is a field name,
    variable name, or expression whose value is logical.

TEXT: Defines a group of character fields or variables (including
    array elements) to use automatic word wrap. The TEXT option works
    with character fields only. When you insert data in the middle of
    a TEXT field, the AVM wraps data that follows into the next TEXT
    field, if necessary. If you delete data from the middle of a TEXT
    field, the AVM wraps data that follows into the empty area. If you
    enter more characters than the format for the field allows, the
    AVM discards the extra characters. The character fields must be
    in the x(n) format.

    A blank in the first
    column of a line marks the beginning of a paragraph. Lines within
    a paragraph are treated as a group and will not wrap into other
    paragraphs.

    The following table lists the keys you can use
    within a TEXT field, and their actions.

    Table 1. Key
    actions in a TEXT field

    In this procedure, the s-com, or Order Comments
    field is a TEXT field. Run the procedure and enter text in the field
    to see how the TEXT option works.

    r-text.p

field = expression: Indicates that the value of field is determined by
    evaluating the expression rather than having
    it entered on the screen or from a file. An assignment statement
    is embedded within the SET statement.

constant AT n: A constant value that you want to display in the frame. The n is
    the column in which you want to start the display.

constant TO n: A constant value that you want to display in the frame. The n is
    the column in which you want to end the display.

^: Tells the AVM to ignore an input field when input is being
    read from a file. Thus, the following statement reads a line from
    an input file and ignores that line:

    This is an efficient way to skip over lines.

SPACE [ (n) ]: Identifies the number (n) of blank spaces
    to insert after the expression on the display. The n can be
If the number of spaces you specify is more than the spaces left
    on the current line of the frame, the AVM starts a new line and
    discards any extra spaces. If you do not use this option or do not
    use n, the AVM inserts one space between items
    in the frame.

SKIP [ (n) ]: Identifies the number (n) of blank lines
    to be inserted after the expression is displayed. The n can
    be 0. If you do not use this option, a line is not skipped between expressions
    only if they do not fit on one line. If you use the SKIP option, but
    do not specify n, or if n is
    0, a new line is started unless it is already at the beginning of
    a new line.

GO-ON (keylabel...): Tells the AVM to take the GO action when the user presses any
    of the keys listed. The keys you list are used in addition to keys
    that perform the GO action by default or because of ON statements.
    When you list a key label in the GO-ON option, you use the keyboard
    label of that key. For example, if you want the AVM to take the
    GO action when the user presses F1,
    you use the statement GO-ON(F1).
    If you list more than one key, separate them with spaces, not commas,
    as in GO-ON(F1RETURN).

frame-phrase: Specifies the overall layout and processing properties of a
    frame. For more information on frame-phrase,
    see the Frame phrase reference entry.

editing-phrase: Supported only for backward compatibility.

    Identifies
    processing to take place as each keystroke is entered. This is the
    syntax for the editing-phrase:

    For more information on editing-phrase,
    see the EDITING phrase reference entry.

record: Represents the name of a record buffer. All of the fields in
    the record, except those with the data type RECID and ROWID, are
    processed exactly as if you set each individually. The record you
    name must contain at least one field.: To use SET with a record in a table defined for multiple databases,
    you must qualify the record's table name with the database name. See the record definition in the Record phrase reference entry for more
    information.

NO-ERROR: The NO-ERROR option is used to
    prevent the statement from raising ERROR and
    displaying error messages.

EXCEPT field: Affects all fields except those fields listed in the EXCEPT phrase.

Note: Compound assignment operators (+=, -=, =, /=) can be used with the SET
statement. For more information, see += Addition assignment operator,
-= Subtraction assignment operator, \= Multiplication assignment operator, and /= Division assignment operator.

Examples

The r-set.p procedure
reads each Item record, displays the ItemNum and
lets the user enter information for the ItemName, OnHand, Allocated,
and Price fields. When you run this procedure,
notice that it does not display existing values for the ItemName, OnHand, Allocated,
and Price fields.

r-set.p

On each iteration of the block, the FOR EACH
statement reads a single record into the Item record buffer. The
DISPLAY statement moves the ItemNum from the record
buffer to the screen buffer where you can see it. The SET statement
prompts for data, stores the data in screen buffers, and moves the
data to the record buffer, overwriting whatever is already there.
Therefore, even though the ItemName, OnHand, Allocated,
and Price fields are put into the Item record buffer
by the FOR EACH statement, you never see the values for those fields.

The r-set2.p procedure
displays the CustNum, Name, and CreditLimit for
a Customer and lets you change the CreditLimit field.
The HELP option in the SET statement displays help information at
the bottom of the screen when you are changing the CreditLimit.
The VALIDATE option in the SET statement makes sure that the CreditLimit value
is greater than 0. If it is not, VALIDATE displays the message "Invalid credit
limit."

r-set2.p

After you modify CreditLimit,
the procedure creates an Order for the Customer and assigns the Customer.CustNum value
to the CustNum field in the Order record. The SET
statement lets you enter information for the OrderNum and ShipDate fields.
The VALIDATE option in the SET statement makes sure that the Ship
Date is greater than TODAY.

Notes

 If any field is a field in a database record, the SET statement
  upgrades the record lock condition to EXCLUSIVE-LOCK before updating the record.
 If any field is part of a record retrieved with a field list, the SET
  statement rereads the complete record before updating it.
 SET does not move data into the field or variable if there is no data in the
  corresponding screen field. There is data in a screen field if a DISPLAY of the field was
  done or if you enter data into the field. If you set a field or variable that has not been
  DISPLAYed in the frame and key in blanks, then the field or variable is not changed
  because the screen field is changed only if the data differs from what was in the frame
  field.
 When ABL compiles a procedure, it designs all the frames used by that procedure. When
  you run the procedure, the SET statement puts data into those fields.
 In a SET statement, the AVM first prompts for all specified fields and then assigns the
  values of those fields, moving from left to right. During this left to right pass of the
  field list, the AVM processes embedded assignments (field =
  assignment) as it encounters them.
 If you are getting input from a device other than the terminal, and the number of
  characters read by the SET statement for a particular field or variable exceeds the
  display format for that field or variable, the AVM returns an error. However, if you are
  setting a logical field that has a format of y/n and the data file contains a value of YES
  or NO, the AVM converts that value to "y" or "n".
 If you type blanks into a field in which data has never been displayed, the ENTERED
  function returns FALSE and the SET or ASSIGN statement does not update the underlying
  field or variable. Also, if the AVM has marked a field as entered, and the SET statement
  prompts for the field again and you do not enter any data, the AVM no longer considers the
  field an entered field.
 If you use a single qualified identifier with the SET statement, the Compiler first
  interprets the reference as dbname.tablename. If the Compiler cannot
  resolve the reference as dbname.tablename, it tries to resolve it as
  tablename.fieldname.

  When using SET to set fields, you must use
  table names that are different from field names to avoid ambiguous references. See the
  Record phrase reference entry for more
  information.
 The SET statement causes the ASSIGN and WRITE events to occur and fires
  all related database ASSIGN and WRITE triggers. The ASSIGN triggers execute before the
  WRITE triggers and after the field is actually updated. The WRITE triggers only execute if
  the ASSIGN triggers do not return an error. If an ASSIGN trigger fails (or executes a
  RETURN statement with the ERROR option), the SET statement is undone. This means that any
  changes to the database from that SET statement are backed out. If the SET statement
  occurs within a transaction, any changes to variables, worktable fields, and temp-table
  fields are also undone unless they are defined with the NO-UNDO option. Also, if a WRITE
  trigger fails (or executes a RETURN statement with the ERROR option), the SET statement is
  undone. See Use ABL Database Triggers and Indexes for more
  information on database triggers.

  Note: If the value to be set is the same as the value
  already in the database field, then any associated database ASSIGN triggers are not
  executed.
 In the context of the.NET blocking method, System.Windows.Forms.Application:Run(), if you execute the SET statement for
  a non-modal ABL window from within a user-defined function or non-VOID method, this
  statement raises the STOP condition. For more information on the.NET Application:Run() method, see the reference entry for the
  WAIT-FOR statement (.NET and ABL).

See also

DEFINE STREAM statement, EDITING phrase, Format phrase, Frame phrase, NO-ERROR option
PROMPT-FOR statement, Stream object handle, UPDATE statement




SIZE phrase

Specifies the width and height of a widget.
You can express the dimensions in either character units or pixels.

Syntax

{ SIZE | SIZE-CHARS }: Specifies that the unit of measure is characters.

SIZE-PIXELS: Specifies that the unit of measure is pixels.

width: Specifies the width of the widget. If the units are characters, width must
    be a decimal constant. If the units are pixels, width must
    be an integer constant.

height: Specifies the height of the widget. If the units are characters,
    the value height must be a decimal constant.
    If the units are pixels, height must be an integer constant.

Example

The
following example uses SIZE phrases to set the initial dimensions
of the rectangle rec and to set the dimensions of the frame sz-frame.
When you choose the b\_size button, the rectangle is randomly resized.

r-size.p

Notes

 ABL
  supports fractional character units. Therefore, if you express dimensions
  in characters, the width and height values can include up to two
  decimal places.
 For SpeedScript, the PIXEL options are not valid.

See also

COMBO-BOX phrase, DEFINE BROWSE statement, DEFINE BUTTON statement, DEFINE IMAGE statement, DEFINE RECTANGLE statement, EDITOR phrase, Frame phrase, RADIO-SET phrase, SELECTION-LIST phrase, SLIDER phrase




SLIDER phrase

Describes a slider representation of a field
or variable. A slider is a graphical representation of a numeric
range. It is composed of a rectangular area that contains a line
or trackbar. A marker or pointer within the region indicates the
current value. The SLIDER phrase is an option of the VIEW-AS phrase.

Note: Does not apply to SpeedScript programming.

Syntax

MAX-VALUE max-value MIN-VALUE min-value: Sets the range of values for the slider. Both max-value and min-value must
    be integer constants. Depending on the windowing system in use, the
    maximum value, minimum value, or both can be displayed with the slider.
    If you do not specify either a minimum value or a maximum value, the
    default is 0. Max-value must be greater than min-value.

    In
    Windows only, you can use the MAX-VALUE and MIN-VALUE options with
    the LARGE-TO-SMALL option to indicate that the slider's maximum
    display value displays first and the minimum value displays last as
    you move the slider control.

HORIZONTAL | VERTICAL: Specifies the orientation of the slider. If the orientation
    is VERTICAL, the slider displays with the minimum value at the bottom
    and the maximum value at the top. The user can then change the value
    by moving the trackbar up or down. If the orientation is HORIZONTAL
    (the default), the slider displays with the minimum value at the
    left and the maximum value at the right. The user can then change
    the value by moving the bar left or right.

NO-CURRENT-VALUE: The default is to display the current value for a given position
    on the slider control. The NO-CURRENT-VALUE option allows you to override
    this default behavior to indicate that the slider will not automatically
    display the current value of the slider.

    For example, if the
    MIN-VALUE is 10, the default is to display the value 10 when the
    slider is first realized, and to update the displayed value whenever
    a user moves the slider trackbar.

    The NO-CURRENT-VALUE option
    is supported in Windows only.

LARGE-TO-SMALL: The default numeric range that a slider can display is small (minimum)
    to large (maximum). The LARGE-TO-SMALL option allows you to override
    this default behavior as follows:

     When the slider is
      positioned horizontally, the left-most position on the trackbar
      displays the maximum value and the right-most position displays
      the minimum value.
     When the slider is positioned vertically, the bottom-most position
      on the trackbar displays the maximum value and the top-most position displays
      the minimum value.

    The LARGE-TO-SMALL option is supported
    in Windows only.

TIC-MARKS { NONE | TOP | BOTTOM | LEFT | RIGHT | BOTH }: Enables the display of short hash marks on the outside of
    a slider to help indicate the movement of the trackbar with the
    slider widget. The default is not to display tic marks. If you specify
    the TIC-MARKS option, it is assumed that you are using new code
    to create a slider, and the trackbar on the slider widget will be
    relatively large.

    However, if you leave the TIC-MARKS option
    out, ABL assumes that you are migrating old code, and the default
    size of the slider is the size originally defined for the slider
    in the old code.

    If you want to use the large trackbar but
    do not want tic marks to display, specify TIC-MARKS NONE.

    To
    implement the TIC-MARKS option, you must also specify on which side,
    or sides, of the trackbar tick-marks display by using the additional
    TOP, BOTTOM, LEFT, RIGHT, or BOTH qualifying options.

    The
    TIC-MARKS option is supported in Windows only.

FREQUENCY n: Used only with the TIC-MARKS option, indicates the incremental
    display of the TIC-MARKS. For example, if you indicate a frequency
    of 5, a tic mark displays in every fifth position along the slider bar.

    The
    FREQUENCY option is supported in Windows only.

TOOLTIP tooltip: Allows you to define a help text message for a text field
    or text variable. The AVM automatically displays this text when
    the user pauses the mouse pointer over a text field or text variable
    for which a ToolTip is defined.

    You can add or change the
    TOOLTIP option at any time. If TOOLTIP is set to "" or
    the Unknown value (?), then the ToolTip is removed. No
    ToolTip is the default. The TOOLTIP option is supported in Windows
    only.

size-phrase: Specifies the outside dimensions of the slider widget. This
    is the syntax for size-phrase:

    For more information, see the SIZE phrase reference
    entry.

Example

The
following procedure displays a slider with tic-marks noted every
tenth position, and prompts the user to pick an integer value. After
the user picks an integer, the program displays in a separate frame
the text "You selected" followed by the value.

r-slide.p

Notes

 If
  the slider is too short, the user might not be able to select from the
  full range of values.
 If you display the slider horizontally, the width value
  determines the length of the slider, and the height value
  adds white space above and below the slider; similarly, if you display
  the slider vertically, the height value determines
  the length of the slider, and the width value
  adds white space on either side of the slider.
 Note that Windows allows a user to transfer focus to the slider
  by pressing ALT and one of the letters
  in the label.
 In character interfaces, a slider widget has a minimum width
  that is dependent on the specified maximum value (MAX-VALUE attribute). The
  minimum height for a slider widget in a character interface is 2
  character units. You can specify a value as low as 1.5 character
  units for the height of a slider in a character interface; however,
  ABL rounds the value up to 2 character units.

See also

VIEW-AS phrase




STATUS statement

Specifies the text that appears in the status
line of a window. The AVM displays the following default messages
on that line:

 When a procedure is blocked and is waiting
  for the user to enter data into a frame field, the status message
  is "Enter data or press end-error to end," where end-error is
  the key label for the END-ERROR key.
 When a procedure reaches a PAUSE statement, the status message
  is "Press space bar to continue."
 While a procedure is not blocked for input, the status message
  is blank.

Note: Does not apply to SpeedScript
programming.

Syntax

DEFAULT expression: Replaces the default status message when a user is running a procedure
    (the default status message is blanks). The expression
    must be character and must be enclosed in quotes if it is a constant. If you
    do not specify an expression, the AVM resets the
    STATUS DEFAULT line to its original state. The STATUS DEFAULT is a maximum of 511
    characters.

INPUT OFF: Tells the AVM not to display an input status message.

INPUT expression: Replaces the default status message when a user is entering
    data into a frame field. The expression must
    be character and must be enclosed in quotes if it is a constant.
    If you do not specify an expression, the AVM
    resets the STATUS INPUT line to its original state.

IN WINDOW window: Specifies the window in which to set the status message. If
    you omit the IN WINDOW phrase, the STATUS statement applies to the
    current window.

Example

This
procedure replaces the default status messages with two other messages:

r-status.p

Notes

 After
  you use the STATUS DEFAULT, STATUS INPUT OFF, or STATUS INPUT statement
  during a session, that statement is in effect for all the procedures
  run in that session, unless it is overridden by other STATUS statements
  in those procedures, or until you return to the Procedure Editor.
 You cannot use the STATUS statement to change the default status messages
  displayed while you are in the Procedure Editor.
 You can use the PAUSE statement to override the default status message
  displayed when the AVM encounters a PAUSE statement.
• When you use the HELP attribute to display help text for a widget,
  the AVM overwrites the status text with the HELP text.

See also

MESSAGE statement, PAUSE statement




SYSTEM-DIALOG COLOR statement

(Windows only; Graphical
interfaces only)

Displays a dialog box that lets the user
choose and associate a system color with the specified dynamic color
number. The SYSTEM-DIALOG COLOR statement provides a dialog box
appropriate to the graphical environment in which it runs.

Note: Does not apply to SpeedScript programming.

Syntax

color-number: An integer expression that evaluates to an ABL color number from
    0 to 255, inclusive, that is defined as dynamic through the SET-DYNAMIC
    method of the COLOR-TABLE handle. The color dialog associates the
    ABL color specified by color-number with the
    system color value the user selects in the dialog box. The user chooses
    the OK button to confirm the choice. The user can close the dialog box
    without changing the color by choosing the Cancel button.

UPDATE logical-variable: Specifies a logical variable to return the status of the
    user's color dialog interaction. If the user chooses the OK button,
    the dialog sets logical-variable to TRUE. If
    the user chooses the Cancel button, the dialog sets logical-variable to FALSE.

IN WINDOW window: Specifies the window where the dialog box is displayed. The value window must
    be the handle of a window.

Example

The
following procedure displays a dialog box that allows the user to
assign new foreground and background colors to the dialog box. A
radio set in the dialog box lists selections for foreground and
background that correspond to the numbers nine and eight, respectively.
Choosing the OK button opens a color dialog box to assign a new
system color to the selected color number. Note that the UPDATE
option is not used to return a termination status because the dialog
does not require the user to select a new color; it only provides
the option. The procedure terminates when the user chooses the Cancel
button in the radio selection dialog box.

r-coldlg.p

Note that the trigger for the ok-button must
assign the curr-color variable to obtain the latest value selected
for the radio set. The GET-DYNAMIC and SET-DYNAMIC methods are used
to ensure that the color is dynamic before modifying it.

Notes

 For more information on defining dynamic colors, see Manage ABL Applications.
 Use the color-number in a COLOR phrase to assign
  the selected color to a widget.

See also

COLOR phrase, COLOR-TABLE system handle




SYSTEM-DIALOG FONT statement

(Windows only; Graphical
interfaces only)

Displays a dialog box that allows the user
to select and associate a system font with the specified font number.
The SYSTEM-DIALOG FONT statement provides a dialog box appropriate
to the graphical environment in which it runs.

Note: Does
not apply to SpeedScript programming.

Syntax

font-number: An integer expression that returns an ABL font number (0
    to 255), inclusive, which is defined in the setup file for your
    environment. The font dialog associates the ABL font specified by font-number with
    the system font the user selects in the dialog. The user confirms
    the selection and completes the dialog by choosing the OK button.
    The user interrupts the dialog without changing the font by choosing
    the Cancel button.

ANSI-ONLY: Allows the font dialog to provide only fonts that contain
    character representations and that do not include graphic symbols.

FIXED-ONLY: Allows the font dialog to provide only mono-spaced fonts.

MAX-SIZE point-size: Has no effect; supported only for backward compatibility.

MIN-SIZE point-size: Has no effect; supported only for backward compatibility.

UPDATE logical-variable: Specifies a logical variable to return the status of the
    user's font dialog interaction. If the user clicks on the OK button,
    the dialog sets logical-variable to TRUE. If
    the user chooses on the Cancel button, the dialog sets logical-variable to FALSE.

IN WINDOW window: Specifies the window from which the dialog box is displayed. The
    value window must be the handle of a window.

Example

The
following procedure displays a dialog box that allows the user to change
the font of either its radio set or its buttons. The radio set lists
a font number for each selection: font 1 for the radio set and font
2 for the buttons. Choosing the OK button opens a font dialog to
assign a new system font to the font number selected in the radio
set. Note that the UPDATE option is not used to return a termination
status because the dialog does not require the user to select a
new font; it only provides the option. The procedure terminates
when the user chooses the Cancel button.

r-fntdlg.p

Note: The CHOOSE OF OK event trigger
must reference the SCREEN-VALUE attribute of the FontSelect variable
to obtain the latest value selected for its radio set. This is because
the UPDATE statement has not yet completed during the event, and
has not updated the FontSelect record buffer from the frame buffer.
The initial value of FontSelect is its value in the record buffer
immediately before the UPDATE statement executes.

Notes

 For more information on defining font numbers, see Manage ABL Applications.
 Use the font-number with the FONT option
  to assign the selected font to a widget.




SYSTEM-DIALOG GET-DIR statement

(Windows only)

Displays
a dialog box that allows the user to enter a directory name that
is assigned to a character variable. The SYSTEM-DIALOG GET-DIR statement provides
a dialog box appropriate to the environment in which it runs.

Note: Does not apply to SpeedScript programming.

Syntax

character-field: The character field or variable that contains the directory name the
    user enters. The user can enter the directory name by typing it or selecting it from a
    list of directories in the common dialog directory. The user confirms the entry and
    completes the dialog by choosing the OK button. The user can interrupt the dialog
    without any selection by choosing the Cancel button. The directory name can contain
    Unicode characters. See Internationalize ABL Applications
    for more information about Unicode.

INITIAL-DIR directory-string: Sets the starting directory for this invocation of SYSTEM-DIALOG
    GET-DIR to the pathname specified in directory-string before
    starting the dialog. The directory-string is
    a character expression that must evaluate to a valid pathname in
    your environment. The default starting directory is either the current
    working directory or the directory left from the last invocation
    of SYSTEM-DIALOG GET-DIR. The directory name can contain Unicode
    characters.

RETURN-TO-START-DIR: This option resets the current directory to the starting
    directory when the common dialog ends. This is the directory specified
    by the INITIAL-DIR option or the default starting directory.

    If
    you do not specify this option, the directory remains set at the
    last directory referenced by the user. This directory becomes the
    default initial directory for subsequent invocations of SYSTEM-DIALOG
    GET-DIR. This option also has no effect on subsequent invocations
    that specify the INITIAL-DIR option.

TITLE title-string: Specifies a title for the dialog box. The value title-string can
    be any character expression. If you do not specify a title, the
    dialog uses the system default for your environment.

Notes

 The
  default common dialog directory for the initial invocation of SYSTEM-DIALOG
  GET-DIR is the current working directory. You can specify a different
  starting common dialog directory with the INITIAL-DIR option and
  the user can change the common dialog directory by referencing a
  different directory in the common dialog.
 The Windows common dialog never searches the PROPATH,
  and always returns the full pathname of the entered relative pathname
  appended to the current common dialog directory.




SYSTEM-DIALOG GET-FILE statement

(Windows only)

Displays
a dialog box that allows the user to enter a filename that is assigned to
a character variable. The SYSTEM-DIALOG GET-FILE statement provides
a dialog box appropriate to the environment in which it runs.

Note: Does not apply to SpeedScript programming.

Syntax

character-field: The character field or variable that contains the filename
    the user enters. The user can enter the filename by typing it or
    selecting it from a list of files in the common dialog directory.
    The user confirms the entry and completes the dialog by choosing
    the OK button. The user can interrupt the dialog without any selection
    by choosing the Cancel button.

    You can also use character-field to
    pass a default filename entry to the dialog. See the USE-FILENAME
    option for more information.

    The filename can contain Unicode
    characters.

FILTERS namefilespec: Defines one or more filters for the filename dialog. Each
    filter selects a subset of the available files in the common dialog
    directory to build the dialog file selection-list. A filter consists
    of two parts: a label (name) and file specification
    (filespec).

    The name is
    a character expression used as a label for your filter. Windows
    uses the label to identify the filter in a filter selection-list.
    The user can select the label to view the list of files selected by
    the filter.

    The filespec is a character
    expression that evaluates to a file specification string. This string
    can consist of any wild cards or regular expressions used to generate
    valid file specifications in your environment. In Windows, filespec can
    also consist of multiple file specifications, separating each one
    with a comma, for example: \.p,\.i,\.r.

    If you do not specify
    any filters, the dialog builds the selection-list with all files
    in the directory.

INITIAL-FILTER filter-num: Specifies the initial filter list defined by the FILTERS
    option, where filter-num is an integer expression
    that evaluates to the position of the filter in the list, starting
    from 1.

    If you do not specify the INITIAL-FILTER option, the
    dialog uses the first filter in the list as the initial filter.

ASK-OVERWRITE: Causes a the dialog to prompt for confirmation if the user
    enters the name of a file that already exists. By default, the dialog
    does not prompt for confirmation if the user enters an existing
    filename. In Windows, this option is ignored unless SAVE-AS is also
    specified.

CREATE-TEST-FILE: Causes the filename dialog to create a temporary file before
    it completes in order to verify that the user has write access to
    the directory path specified for the filename entry. If the dialog
    cannot write the file, it displays an error message and prompts
    for another filename entry. The dialog does not complete until the
    user enters a filename associated with a writable directory or chooses
    the Cancel button to interrupt the dialog. After successful completion,
    the dialog deletes the temporary file.

    This option is especially
    appropriate with the SAVE-AS option to verify the ability to save
    a file.

DEFAULT-EXTENSION extension-string: Specifies a default extension (or suffix) to be appended
    to the user's filename entry after completing the filename dialog,
    where extension-string is a character expression
    that evaluates to a valid file extension in your environment, including
    all required punctuation. In Windows, the extension must start with
    a period.

    The Windows dialog appends the specified extension
    to the user's filename entry only if the entry does not already
    contain an extension.

INITIAL-DIR directory-string: Sets the starting directory for this invocation of SYSTEM-DIALOG
    GET-FILE to the pathname specified in directory-string before
    starting the dialog. The directory-string is
    a character expression that must evaluate to a valid pathname in
    your environment. The default starting directory is either the current
    working directory or the directory left from the last invocation
    of SYSTEM-DIALOG GET-FILE.

MUST-EXIST: Requires that the user's filename entry, complete with any
    specified default extension, must exist in the directory specified
    for the filename entry before the dialog completes. If it does not
    exist, the dialog displays an error message and prompts for another
    filename entry. The dialog does not complete until the user enters
    the name of an existing file or chooses the Cancel button to interrupt
    the dialog.

RETURN-TO-START-DIR: This option resets the current directory to the starting
    directory when the common dialog ends. This is the directory specified
    by the INITIAL-DIR option or the default starting directory.

    If
    you do not specify this option, the directory remains set at the
    last directory referenced by the user. This directory becomes the
    default initial directory for subsequent invocations of SYSTEM-DIALOG
    GET-FILE. This option also has no effect on subsequent invocations
    that specify the INITIAL-DIR option.

SAVE-AS: Causes the dialog box to become a Save As dialog box. For
    a Save As dialog box, the default box title is "Save As". You can
    use the ASK-OVERWRITE option with SAVE-AS to get confirmation before accepting
    an existing file from the dialog.

TITLE title-string: Specifies a title for the dialog box. The value title-string can
    be any character expression. If you do not specify a title, the
    dialog uses the system default for your environment.

USE-FILENAME: Specifies the contents of character-field as the default filename entry for the dialog. The
    contents can contain Unicode characters. See Internationalize
    ABL Applications for more information about Unicode.

    During the dialog, the user
    can accept the default entry or override it by entering or selecting
    another filename.

UPDATE logical-variable: Specifies a logical variable to return the status of the
    user's filename dialog interaction. If the user chooses the OK button,
    the dialog sets logical-variable to TRUE. If
    the user chooses the Cancel button, the dialog sets logical-variable to FALSE.

IN WINDOW window: Specifies the window from which the dialog box is displayed. The
    value window must be the handle of a window.

Example

The
following example uses the filename dialog box to run procedures.
It allows the user to select and run procedure files until they
choose the Cancel button.

r-fildlg.p

Notes

 The
  default common dialog directory for the initial invocation of SYSTEM-DIALOG
  GET-FILE is the current working directory. You can specify a different
  starting common dialog directory with the INITIAL-DIR option and
  the user can change the common dialog directory by referencing a
  different directory in the common dialog.
• The Windows common dialog never searches the PROPATH,
  and always returns the full pathname of the entered relative pathname
  appended to the current common dialog directory.




SYSTEM-DIALOG PRINTER-SETUP statement

(Windows only)

Displays
the Windows Print dialog box and lets the user set the default print
context for subsequent print jobs in Windows.

Note: Does
not apply to SpeedScript programming.

Syntax

NUM-COPIES expression: Specifies the initial value of the Copies field in the Print
    dialog box. The value expression must evaluate
    to an integer expression. The user can change this value within
    the dialog box. This option is supported only with printer drivers
    that support multi-copy printing. Otherwise, the Copies field is
    disabled.

LANDSCAPE: Specifies the initial value of the Orientation field in the
    Properties dialog box as landscape. The user can change this value
    within the dialog box. The Properties dialog box is accessible from
    the Print dialog box. This option is supported only with printer
    drivers that support landscape page orientation.

PORTRAIT: Specifies the initial value of the Orientation field in the
    Properties dialog box as portrait. The user can change this value
    within the dialog box. The Properties dialog box is accessible from
    the Print dialog box. This option is supported only with printer
    drivers that support portrait page orientation.

UPDATE status: Specifies a logical variable to return the status of the
    user's dialog interaction. If the user chooses the OK button, the
    dialog sets status to TRUE. If the user chooses
    the Cancel button, the dialog sets status to FALSE.

IN WINDOW window: Specifies the window from which the Print dialog box is displayed.
    The value window must be the handle of a window.

Example

This example presents a dialog box that allows you to set up and print
information from the Sports2020 database. When you choose the Printer Setup button, it
displays the Windows Print dialog box. Using the latest settings, you can then print a list
of customer names from the Sports2020 database in alphabetical order by choosing the Print
Customer Names button.

r-prtdlg.p

Notes

 The
  default print context is the set of values that defines the default
  printer and setup for that printer in Windows. If there is no default print
  context, the AVM uses the printer control settings from the current environment.
 Use the PRINTER-NAME attribute of the SESSION system handle
  to set the printer name in the default print context without user
  intervention.
• By default, the OUTPUT TO PRINTER statement prints jobs based on
  the default print context. However, you can use the OUTPUT TO PRINTER
  statement with its various options to override the default print context
  for a specific print job.

See also

OUTPUT TO statement, SESSION system handle




SYSTEM-HELP statement

(Windows only)

The SYSTEM-HELP statement calls the Microsoft Windows Help
engine to display Windows Help topics, and the HTML Help engine to display HTML Help topics.

Note: Does not apply to SpeedScript
programming.

Syntax

file-string: The file-string parameter is a
    character expression that specifies the pathname of a help file. If the file has a.chm extension (the extension for compiled
    Microsoft HTML Help files), the Microsoft HTML Help viewer is launched. If the file has
    a.hlp file extension, the Microsoft Windows Help
    viewer is launched. The pathname can contain Unicode characters. See Internationalize ABL Applications for more information about
    Unicode.

WINDOW-NAME window-name: This option is supported for Windows Help (.hlp files) only.

    The window-name parameter is a character expression that evaluates to the
    primary or secondary window name as defined in the [WINDOWS] section of the help
    project file. If the window name is omitted, or if "main" is specified, the primary
    help window is used.

CONTENTS: Supported only for backward compatibility.

    For
    HTML Help, this option displays the Microsoft HTML Help viewer with the default topic
    in the content pane. Use the HELP-TOPIC option to specify the topic
    to display.

    For Windows Help, this option displays the help
    topic defined as the contents in the [OPTIONS] section of the help project file.

CONTEXT int-expr: Displays the help topic that the context number identifies. You
    define context numbers in the [MAP] section of the help project file.

    The int-expr parameter is the context number for
    the help topic.

HELP-TOPIC string: This option is supported for HTML Help (.chm files) only.

    Displays a help topic in the content
    pane of the Microsoft HTML Help viewer.

    The string parameter is a character expression that indicates
    the topic (.htm/.html file) within the compiled Microsoft HTML Help (.chm) file to display.

KEY string: For HTML Help, this option displays the topic matching the string
    found in the keyword index. Use semicolons in the string parameter to delimit multiple keywords. If no match is found,
    Microsoft HTML Help displays the help viewer with the Index tab on top.

    For Windows Help, this option displays the help topic matching the
    string found in the index keyword list. If there is more than one match, it displays
    the first topic containing the keyword. If there is no match or the string is omitted,
    a message is displayed indicating that the keyword is invalid. The string parameter is a character expression that evaluates
    to a keyword for the desired help topic.

ALTERNATE-KEY string: This option is supported for HTML Help (.chm files) only. For Windows Help (.hlp files), see the MULTIPLE-KEY option.

    Displays a help topic matching the string found in the alternate keyword (Alink) index.

    The string parameter is a
    character expression that evaluates to a keyword in the alternate keyword index.

POSITION X x Y y WIDTH dx HEIGHT dy: Positions an existing (already opened) help window as specified.

    The x parameter is an integer
    expression that specifies the x coordinate for the help window.

    The y parameter is an integer
    expression that specifies the y coordinate for the help window.

    The dx parameter is an integer
    expression that specifies the width of the help window.

    The
    dy parameter is an integer expression that
    specifies the height of the help window.

    Note: The coordinates used in the
    SYSTEM-HELP statement are coordinates used by the Windows Help
    system (not pixel coordinates). The Windows Help system divides the screen into 1024
    units in each direction. For example, if the screen resolution is 1280 x 1024, the
    coordinates are 1.25 pixels wide (1280 / 1024) on the horizontal axis and 1 pixel tall
    (1024 / 1024) on the vertical axis. Thus, setting the position to (10, 10) places the
    help window at (12, 10). The horizontal position is 12 because 10 \* 1.25 = 12.5
    (truncated to 12 since there are no fractional pixels).

POSITION MAXIMIZE: Maximizes an existing (already opened) help window.

QUIT: Informs the help application that help is no longer required. If no
    other applications are using help, the operating system closes the help
    application.

SET-CONTENTS int-expr: Supported only for backward compatibility. This option is supported
    for Windows Help (.hlp files) only.

    Dynamically re-maps the contents help topic from what is defined in
    the [OPTIONS] section of the help project file. When a CONTENTS call
    is made, the new contents help topic is displayed.

    The int-expr parameter is the context number for the new
    contents help topic.

CONTEXT-POPUP int-expr: This option is supported for Windows Help (.hlp files) only.

    Displays the help topic in a pop-up
    window that the context number identifies. You define context numbers in the [MAP]
    section of the help project file. If a non-scrolling region exists in a help topic,
    only that region displays when you use the CONTEXT-POPUP option to
    display the topic.

    The int-expr parameter is the context number for the help topic.

PARTIAL-KEY string: This option is supported for Windows Help (.hlp files) only.

    Displays the help topic matching the
    string found in the keyword list. In Windows, if there is more than one match, no
    match, or if the string is omitted, it displays the Help Topics: Window Help Topics
    dialog box with the Index tab on top.

    The string parameter is a character expression that evaluates
    to a partial key for the desired help topic.

MULTIPLE-KEY char TEXT string: This option is supported for Windows Help (.hlp files) only. For HTML Help, see the ALTERNATE-KEY
    option.

    Displays the help topic matching a keyword from an
    alternate keyword table.

    The char parameter is a character expression that evaluates to the single
    character keyword table identifier for the required table.

    The
    string parameter is a character expression that
    evaluates to the keyword that is located in the keyword table.

COMMAND string: This option is supported for Windows Help (.hlp files) only.

    Executes a help macro.

    The string parameter is a
    character expression that evaluates to the help macro to execute.

FINDER: This option is supported for Windows Help (.hlp files) only.

    Displays the Help Topics: Windows
    Help Topics dialog box, which contains an Index tab, a Find tab, and optionally a
    Contents tab, with the most recently used tab displayed on top.

    If a Contents tab file (.CNT file) is present
    when you initially call the Help Topics: Windows Help dialog box, then the Content tab
    displays on top. However, if a.CNT file is not
    present, then the dialog box displays with the Index tab on top; the Contents tab is
    not available.

FORCE-FILE: This option is supported for Windows Help (.hlp files) only.

    Ensures that the correct help file is
    open and displayed.

HELP: This option is supported for Windows Help (.hlp files) only.

    Displays the contents of the ABL
    Help-on-Help file. In Windows, HELP displays the Help Topics: Windows
    Help Topics dialog box.

Example

The following example demonstrates several features of the
SYSTEM-HELP statement with the Procedure Editor help file (editeng.chm). The user can select a button to demonstrate each
of the following SYSTEM-HELP options: CONTEXT,
KEY, ALTERNATE-KEY, POSITION,
POSITION-MAXIMIZE, and QUIT.

To execute this procedure, first copy the editeng.chm file
from DLC\prohelp to your current working directory (by
default, C:\OpenEdge\WRK). Then open and
run r-syshlpchm.p in the Procedure Editor.

r-syshlpchm.p

See also

FILE-INFO system handle, SEARCH function




TERMINAL function

In Windows, in graphical interfaces, TERMINAL returns
WIN3. In Windows, in character interfaces, TERMINAL returns CO80, BW80,
or MONO, depending on the monitor type. On UNIX, TERMINAL returns
the value of the $TERM environment variable. In batch mode, TERMINAL
returns a null string.

Note: Does not apply to
SpeedScript programming.

Syntax

Example

This
one-line procedure displays the type of terminal you are using:

r-term.p

See also

TERMINAL statement




TERMINAL statement

Changes terminal type during program execution.
On UNIX, changes the value of the TERM environment variable.

Note: Does not apply to SpeedScript programming.

Syntax

termid: A terminal type string. The termid can also
    be an expression. The AVM returns an error message if termid is
    not defined in the PROTERMCAP file. However, termid can
    be the word TERMINAL. The line TERMINAL=TERMINAL reinitializes the terminal.

Example

This
procedure changes the terminal screen width from 80 columns to 132 columns,
then back again:

r-seterm.p

Notes

 TERMINAL
  does not change the physical characteristics of a terminal. You
  must supply a valid terminal type for the existing terminal state.
 The TERMINAL statement reinitializes the function key definitions based
  on the specified PROTERMCAP entry. If you have used ON statements
  to change function key definitions, the TERMINAL statement overrides
  those changes.
• If a subprocedure uses a frame, the frame is composed with the
  width that was in effect when the subprocedure was compiled. Changing
  the width (terminal type) outside the scope of that procedure will
  not change the frame width inside the procedure unless it is recompiled.

  The
  following sequence of statements does not work as intended, because subp.p is
  not recompiled before its second execution:

r-setrm1.p

See also

TERMINAL function




UNBOX function

(.NET)

Unboxes a.NET System.Object or array
object and returns a value of a corresponding ABL primitive or array type.

Syntax

object-reference: Specifies an object reference to a boxed.NET primitive value
    (System.Object) or to a one-dimensional.NET array object. For a
    list of the.NET primitive types that a System.Object can box, see
    Table 4.

    If object-reference points
    to a boxed.NET primitive value, the function returns a value
    of the ABL primitive type that implicitly maps to the boxed.NET type.

    If object-reference points
    to a one-dimensional.NET array object, the function returns
    a copy of the elements contained by the.NET array as an ABL
    array. If these elements are.NET mapped object types, the
    returned ABL array contains elements of the corresponding ABL primitive
    type. Otherwise, the ABL array contains object reference elements
    of the actual object type contained by the input.NET array.

Example

The following code creates a.NET DataTable with a single DataRow containing two
columns, an integer and a character string, and adds data to the two columns in that row. It
then processes the data from the "CustNum" (System.Int32) column to get an indication if its value is even or
odd and assigns the result to the ABL INTEGER variable iVal. The Item indexed property that is used to
access the data has the data type System.Object. So, to use
its value in an expression, you must use the UNBOX function to unbox the
underlying.NET mapped data type of the System.Object
value. In this case, the referenced System.Object
represents a System.Int32 value:

Notes

 You must use the UNBOX function if you want to
  reference an appropriate System.Object property or method
  return value in an ABL primitive expression, such as when performing arithmetic operations
  together with compatible ABL variables, fields, or literal values. Invoke the
  UNBOX function directly in the expression, passing it the System.Object as input, where you would otherwise reference the
  System.Object itself.
 For any direct assignment of a.NET object or object array to a
  compatible ABL primitive value or array, use of the UNBOX function is
  optional, because ABL automatically unboxes the underlying.NET object or array object
  type to its matching ABL primitive or array type.
 If you have a variable or field defined as a compatible ABL array type
  that you provide as an argument to an OUTPUT parameter of a.NET method defined as a.NET array object, ABL automatically
  unboxes the.NET array object into the ABL array argument. This automatic unboxing does not occur for an ABL method, procedure, or user-defined function
  passing the same parameters. In this case, you can use a direct assignment from a
  compatible.NET array object argument or use the UNBOX function to
  explicitly do the necessary conversion.
 You must specify the -clrnetcore startup parameter to use the
  UNBOX function on Linux.

See also

BOX function, Data types




UNDERLINE statement

Underlines a field or variable, using the next
display line for the underline.

Note: Does not
apply to SpeedScript programming.

Syntax

STREAM stream: Specifies the name of a stream. If you do not name a stream, the AVM
    uses the unnamed stream. See the DEFINE STREAM statement reference entry and
    the topics on alternate I/O sources in OpenEdge Programming
    Interfaces for more information on streams.

STREAM-HANDLE handle: Specifies the handle to a stream. If handle it is not a valid handle to a stream, the AVM generates a run-time
    error. Note that stream handles are not valid for the unnamed streams. See the topics
    on alternate I/O sources in OpenEdge Programming
    Interfaces for more information on streams and stream handles.

field: Represents the name of the field or variable you want to
    underline.

frame-phrase: Specifies the overall layout and processing properties of
    a frame. For more information on frame-phrase,
    see the Frame phrase reference entry.

Example

This
procedure produces a report of Customer records, categorized by State.
When the last Customer for a certain state has been displayed (determined
by the LAST-OF function), the UNDERLINE statement underlines the State field.

r-under1.p

Notes

 Use
  The UNDERLINE statement to highlight fields or to underline accumulated
  values that you calculated using functions other than the automatic
  aggregate functions supplied with ABL.
 When determining the position within a DOWN frame, the DOWN statement
  and the UP statement count the line used by an underline.
 Even if the layout of a DOWN frame takes multiple screen lines,
  the underline takes just one line on the screen.
 For a 1 DOWN frame or single frame, the UNDERLINE does not appear.
  Instead, the AVM clears the frame.

See also

DEFINE STREAM statement, Frame phrase, Stream object handle




UP statement

Positions the cursor on a new line in a down
or multi-line frame.

When the block specifying the down frame
iterates, the AVM automatically advances one frame line. Use the
UP statement if you want to move to a different display line at
any time.

For more information on down frames, see the DOWN
option of the Frame phrase.

Note: Does not apply to SpeedScript programming.

Syntax

STREAM stream: Specifies the name of a stream. If you do not name a stream, the AVM
    uses the unnamed stream. See the DEFINE STREAM statement reference entry and
    the topics on alternate I/O sources in OpenEdge Programming
    Interfaces for more information on streams.

STREAM-HANDLE handle: Specifies the handle to a stream. If handle it is not a valid handle to a stream, the AVM generates a run-time
    error. Note that stream handles are not valid for the unnamed streams. See the topics
    on alternate I/O sources in OpenEdge Programming
    Interfaces for more information on streams and stream handles.

expression: Represents the number of occurrences of data in the frame
    that you want to move up. UP is the same as UP 1, except that nothing
    happens until the next data handling statement affects the screen.
    Several UP statements in a row with no intervening displays are
    treated like a single UP 1. UP 0 does nothing. If expression is
    negative, the result is the same as a DOWN expression.

frame-phrase: Specifies the overall layout and processing properties of
    a frame. For more information on frame-phrase, see
    the Frame phrase reference entry.

Example

This
procedure starts at the bottom of the screen and displays all the Customer
database records. The default frame for the FOR EACH block is a down
frame. The DISPLAY statement uses that frame. Therefore, the AVM automatically
advances down the screen one line after each iteration. You must use
an UP 2 rather than an UP 1 because there is an automatic DOWN 1 performed
on the display frame at the end of each iteration of the FOR EACH block.

r-up.p

Notes

 When a frame is a down frame, the AVM automatically advances to the next
  frame line on each iteration of the block that it is scoped to, whether or not you use the
  DOWN statement. If you do not want the AVM to do this automatic advancing, name the frame
  outside of the current block.
 When the AVM reaches the top frame line and then encounters
  an UP statement, it clears the frame and starts at the bottom line
  of the frame. However, if you use SCROLL, the AVM moves everything
  in the frame down one row.

See also

DEFINE STREAM statement, DOWN statement, Frame phrase, SCROLL statement, Stream object handle




VIEW statement

Displays a widget (sets its VISIBLE attribute
to TRUE).

Note: Does not apply to SpeedScript programming.

Syntax

STREAM stream: Specifies the name of a stream. If you do not name a stream,
    the AVM uses the unnamed stream.

STREAM-HANDLE handle: Specifies the handle to a stream. If handle it is not a valid handle to a stream, the AVM generates a run-time
    error. Note that stream handles are not valid for the unnamed streams. See the topics
    on alternate I/O sources in OpenEdge Programming
    Interfaces for more information on streams and stream handles.

widget-phrase: Specifies the widget you want to view. You can view windows, frames,
    and field-level widgets. You cannot view menus. If you do not use this
    option, VIEW sets the VISIBLE attribute for the default frame for
    the current block.

IN WINDOW window: Specifies the window in which to view the widget.

Example

The r-view2.p procedure
displays information on a sales representative and then displays
all the Customers belonging to that sales representative. Each new
sales representative is displayed on a new page. In addition, if
the information for a sales representative takes up more than one page,
a separate FORM statement describes a continuation header for that
sales representative. The VIEW statement for the PAGE-TOP frame
hdr2, activates the header for subsequent page breaks.

r-view2.p

Notes

 If
  the widget is already visible, the VIEW statement has no effect.
 Viewing a widget does not, by itself, show any of its data.
  To view data in a widget, you must use a data display statement
  (such as DISPLAY) or assign the data directly to the widget's SCREEN-VALUE
  attribute.
 When you view a window, its frames and their descendant widgets
  are not displayed, unless you explicitly view or display them.
 When you view a widget, the AVM displays that widget unless
  its parent window or an ancestor window has its HIDDEN attribute
  set to TRUE.
 When you view a widget that has its HIDDEN attribute set to
  TRUE, the AVM sets the widget's HIDDEN attribute to FALSE.
 When you view a widget contained by a window that is invisible (VISIBLE
  attribute is FALSE), that widget and the containing window is displayed
  unless the containing window's HIDDEN attribute is set to TRUE.
 When you view a widget contained by one or more ancestor frames that
  are invisible, the VISIBLE attribute is set to TRUE and the HIDDEN attribute
  is set to FALSE for both the viewed widget and all its ancestor frames.
  However, if the containing window or an ancestor window has its HIDDEN
  attribute set to TRUE, neither the viewed widget nor its ancestor
  frames are displayed.
 When you view a frame, that frame and all widgets contained
  within it are displayed except those widgets whose HIDDEN attributes
  are set to TRUE.
 When you view a window, the AVM displays that window and any ancestor windows only if no
  ancestor window has its HIDDEN attribute set to TRUE. If the AVM displays the window, it
  also views any descendant windows down to, but not including, the first descendant window
  that has its HIDDEN attribute set to TRUE.
 If you are displaying a root frame and there is not enough room
  in the window for the new root frame to display, the AVM removes
  other root frames, starting from the bottom of the window, until
  there is room for the new root frame.
• In the case of a PAGE-TOP or PAGE-BOTTOM frame, the VIEW statement
  activates the frame for display at the beginning or end of each page.

See also

DEFINE STREAM statement, HIDE statement, Widget phrase, Stream object handle




WIDGET-HANDLE function

This function is supported only for backward
compatibility. Use the HANDLE function instead.

Converts
a string representation of a handle to a valid handle.

Syntax

CAUTION: Use this function only to
convert a handle previously stored as a string value back to a valid
handle. If you convert an arbitrary string to handle using this
function and then reference the new handle, a system error will
occur. If you use the VALID-HANDLE function to validate a handle
generated from an arbitrary string value, a system error will occur.

handle-string: A string representation of a handle. Since handles are integer values,
    the string must contain only numeric characters.




Widget phrase

References a widget in a statement. The Widget
phrase is used in the APPLY, ON, and WAIT-FOR statements.

Note: Does not apply to SpeedScript programming.

Syntax

FRAME frame: Specifies a frame widget. The frame parameter
    must be the name of an existing frame.

[ FIELD ] field [ IN FRAME frame ]: Specifies a field. The FIELD keyword is optional. The field parameter
    must be the name of an existing field-level widget: a fill-in, editor,
    text, slider, toggle box, radio set, selection list, combo box,
    button, image, rectangle, or browse. Use the IN FRAME option
    to qualify the widget, if necessary.

column [ IN BROWSE browse ]: Specifies a column or cell in a browse widget. Use the IN BROWSE
    option to qualify the widget, if necessary. For more information
    on when you can reference browse columns and cells, see the DEFINE BROWSE statement reference entry.

{ MENU | SUB-MENU } menu: Specifies a menu or submenu. The menu parameter
    must be the name of an existing menu. The menu can be a pop-up menu,
    pull-down menu, or menu bar. Within the widget phrase, ABL does
    not distinguish between MENU and SUB-MENU.

MENU-ITEM menu-item [ IN MENU menu ]: Specifies an menu item within a menu. The menu item parameter
    must be the name of an existing menu item. Use the IN MENU option to
    qualify the menu item, if necessary.

handle: Variable or field that specifies a valid widget, procedure,
    or system handle.

system-handle: Specifies a built-in system handle. The system handle parameter must
    be one of the built-in system handles listed in the following table.

    Table 1. System handles

Notes

For
information on how to access widget attributes and methods, see
the Accessing handle attributes and methods.




