DEFINE VARIABLE statement

Defines a variable for use in one or more procedures, a variable data
member of a class for use in a single class or class hierarchy, or by other classes and
procedures, or a variable data element for use within a single class-based method.

The VAR statement is a shorthand notation for the
DEFINE VARIABLE statement and may be used for NO-UNDO
variables. For more information, see the VAR statement in the
ABL Reference.

Syntax

NEW SHARED VARIABLE variable-name: Defines and identifies a variable to be shared by a procedure called
    directly or indirectly by the current procedure. The called procedure must name the same
    variable in a DEFINE SHARED VARIABLE statement.

NEW GLOBAL SHARED VARIABLE variable-name: Defines and identifies a variable that can be used by any procedure
    that names that variable using the DEFINE SHARED VARIABLE statement. The value of a
    global shared variable remains available throughout an ABL session.

SHARED VARIABLE variable-name: Defines and identifies a variable that was created by another
    procedure that used the DEFINE NEW SHARED VARIABLE or DEFINE NEW GLOBAL SHARED VARIABLE
    statement.

[PRIVATE|PACKAGE-PRIVATE|PROTECTED|PACKAGE-PROTECTED|PUBLIC] [STATIC] [SERIALIZABLE|NON-SERIALIZABLE] VARIABLE variable-name: Defines and identifies a variable as a data member of a class, and optionally specifies an access mode (PRIVATE, PACKAGE-PRIVATE, PROTECTED, PACKAGE-PROTECTED, or PUBLIC) and scope (instance or STATIC) for that data member, as well as whether or not the variable will participate in serialization (SERIALIZABLE or NON-SERIALIZABLE).: You cannot specify these options when defining a variable as a data
    element of a method (including constructors, destructors, and property accessors) or
    procedure.

    Note: The specified options are applicable only
    when defining a data member for a class in a class definition (.cls) file. The access mode modifier and the STATIC
    modifier can appear in either order, e.g., DEFINE STATIC
    PUBLIC VARIABLE myVariable... is valid syntax. Note also that you cannot
    override the definition of a given variable data member in a class hierarchy.

    PRIVATE variable data members
    can be accessed by the defining class. An instance can access a private data member of
    another instance if both instances are from the same class. PACKAGE-PRIVATE variable
    data members can be accessed from within the class and any class within its package.
    PROTECTED variable data members can be accessed by the defining class and any of its
    derived classes. PACKAGE-PROTECTED variable data members can be accessed from within
    the class, any class within its package, and from within any subclass that inherits
    the class. PUBLIC variable data members can be accessed from any code (in a class or a
    procedure) that has access to a class instance.

    The default
    access mode is PRIVATE.

    A variable defined with the STATIC
    option is a static data member of the class type for which it is defined and is scoped
    to the ABL session where it is referenced. ABL creates one copy of the specified class
    static variable on first reference to the class type, and ABL creates only one such
    copy for any number of instances of the class that you create. You can reference an
    accessible static variable data member in any piece of code.

    Without the STATIC option, ABL creates an instance variable data member that is
    scoped to a single instance of the class where it is defined. ABL creates one copy of
    the specified instance variable for each such class instance that you create. You can
    reference any public instance variable in any procedure, or in any instance or static
    method defined inside or outside of the class where the instance variable is defined.
    Any static method can reference the public instance variable only using an object
    reference to a class instance that defines the variable as a data member. If the
    referencing static method is defined in the same class as the public instance
    variable, the class must instantiate itself in order to have access to an instance
    reference.

    For more information on the mechanism for accessing
    variable data members of different access modes and scopes, see the reference entry
    for Class-based data member access.

    Note: Members of a class are grouped into six namespaces,
    including buffers/temp-tables, methods, variables/properties/events, ProDataSets,
    queries, and data-sources. Variables, properties, and events defined as members of a
    class share the same namespace. There can be only one class member in this namespace
    with a given name (not counting abstract member overrides).

    Class-based objects
    that are defined as serializable (using the SERIALIZABLE option in the CLASS statement) can be passed as
    parameters in remotes call between the application server and ABL clients and can be
    serialized to binary or JSON format. By default, both passing a class as a parameter and
    serializing an object to binary via the Progress.IO.BinarySerializer class include all data members regardless of
    access mode. However, for JSON serialization via Progress.IO.JsonSerializer, only public data members are serialized. To
    include other access modes during JSON serialization, SERIALIZABLE must be added to the
    definition. See Serialize() method (JsonSerializer) for
    more information.

    Use the NON-SERIALIZABLE option to exclude a given
    variable from the serialization process via the Progress.IO.BinarySerializer or Progress.IO.JsonSerializer class. A variable marked as NON-SERIALIZABLE is
    assigned its initial value when the class is deserialized.

    You
    can also use the NON-SERIALIZABLE option to make a class that otherwise would not be
    serializable because one or more of its members. (See the Parameter passing syntax entry for full details on what can
    and cannot be serialized.) For example, if a variable itself is a class-based object
    that is not serializable, adding the NON-SERIALIZABLE keyword to that variable will
    allow the class that contains it to be defined as SERIALIZABLE.

    Note: Use the SERIALIZABLE and NON-SERIALIZABLE options only with instance
    variables. These options are not for use with variables defined as STATIC or as part
    of an interface.

    If variable-name is an ABL reserved keyword, you must include the access
    mode in its definition. You must also use the THIS-OBJECT system reference or Type-name syntax to access the variable data member.
    For more information on referencing variable data members, see the reference entry for
    Class-based data member access.

    Note: If the data member is defined in a class that is derived
    from a.NET class, other restrictions on variable-name apply. For more information, see the CLASS statement reference entry.

    For more information on where and how to define data members in a
    class, see the CLASS statement
    reference entry.

VARIABLE variable-name: Defines and identifies a variable whose value you can access only
    within the current procedure, method of a class (including constructors, destructors,
    and property accessors), or as a PRIVATE data member of a class.

AS primitive-type-name: Specifies a built-in primitive type for the variable you are
    defining. The built-in data type (primitive-type-name) can be one of the following:

    For more information on these primitive types, see the Data types reference
    entry.

AS [ CLASS ]{object-type-name}: Defines the variable as an object reference with the data type of a
    class or interface. The default value of the variable is the Unknown value (?). You cannot assign an initial value using the INITIAL option.

    object-type-name: Specifies the type name of an ABL or.NET class or interface.
        Specify an object type name using the syntax described in the Type-name syntax reference entry. With an
        appropriate USING statement,
        you can also specify a class or interface name alone, without the qualifying
        package or namespace.

        You cannot directly specify the type name
        of a.NET mapped object type (such as System.Int32). To define a variable that
        matches a.NET mapped type, you must define it as the corresponding ABL
        primitive type (primitive-type-name).

    CLASS: If the specified class or interface type name conflicts with an
        abbreviation for a built-in primitive type name, such as INT for INTEGER, you must
        specify the CLASS keyword.

    For more information on object references, see the Class-based object reference reference
    entry.

LIKE field: Indicates the name of the variable, database field, temp-table field,
    or work table field whose characteristics you want to use for the variable you are
    defining. If you name a variable with this option, you must have defined that variable
    earlier in the procedure. You can override the format, label, initial value, decimals,
    and extent of the variable or database field by using the FORMAT, LABEL, COLUMN-LABEL,
    INITIAL, DECIMALS, EXTENT, and VIEW-AS options. If you do not use these options, the
    variable takes on the characteristics of the variable or database field you name.

    If field has help and validate
    options defined, the variable you are defining does not
    inherit those characteristics.

    If you reference a database
    field in a LIKE option in a DEFINE VARIABLE statement, DEFINE TEMP-TABLE statement,
    DEFINE WORK-TABLE statement, or format phrase, the database containing the referenced
    field must be connected at compile time but not necessarily at run time. Therefore,
    use the LIKE option with caution.

EXTENT [constant ]: Defines the variable as an array of data elements, where the element
    data type is specified by the AS primitive-type-name option, the LIKE field option, or the AS object-type-name option. This option can specify an array variable as
    either determinate (has a defined number of elements) or indeterminate (has an undefined
    number of elements). To define a determinate array variable, specify the EXTENT option
    with the constant argument. This optional argument
    is an integer value that represents the number of data elements in the array variable.
    To define an indeterminate array variable, specify the EXTENT option without the
    constant argument.

    The EXTENT
    is part of the variable data type. For more information, see the Type-name syntax reference entry.

    An indeterminate array variable can be in one of two states: with a
    size (fixed) or without a size (unfixed). An indeterminate array variable does not
    have a size when first defined, unless initial values are provided.. You can set the
    size of an indeterminate array variable by:

     Initializing the array values when you define the variable,
      using the INITIAL option
     Setting the number of elements in the array variable using the
      EXTENT statement
     Assigning a sized array to the indeterminate array, setting the
      size to the size of the source array
     Passing array parameters to a procedure, user-defined function,
      or class-based method, so that the indeterminate array variable is the target for
      the passing of a determinate array, setting the size to the size of the determinate
      array

    If you want to define a variable that is like an array
    variable or field, using the LIKE option, but if you do not want the variable to be an
    array, you can use EXTENT 0 to indicate a non-array field.

    If
    you are using the AS option and you do not use the EXTENT option (or you specify
    constant as 0), the variable is not an array
    variable. If you are using the LIKE field option
    and you do not use the EXTENT option, the variable uses the extent defined for the
    database field you name (if any).

SERIALIZE-NAME serialize-name: An optional CHARACTER constant that specifies the name of the
    variable as it should appear when serialized into JSON. The default is variable-name. Use this option when the serialized name
    contains invalid characters for an ABL name, is an ABL keyword, or an invalid JSON
    property name.: This option is only valid for class members, and it cannot be used if
    the variable is defined as NON-SERIALIZABLE or the class that contains it is not defined
    as SERIALIZABLE.

BGCOLOR expression: Specifies a background color for the variable in graphical
    interfaces. This option is ignored in character interfaces.

[ NOT ] CASE-SENSITIVE: CASE-SENSITIVE indicates that the value stored for a character
    variable is case sensitive, and that all comparisons operations involving the variable
    are case sensitive. If you do not use this option, ABL comparisons are usually case
    insensitive. If you define a variable LIKE another field of variable, the new variable
    inherits case sensitivity. Use [NOT] CASE-SENSITIVE to override this default.

COLUMN-LABEL label: Names the label you want to display above the variable data in a
    frame that uses column labels. If you want the label to use more than one line (a
    stacked label), use an exclamation point (!) in the label to indicate where to break the
    line. For example:

    r-collbl.p

    If you want to use the exclamation point (!) as one of the
    characters in a column label, use two exclamation points (!!).

    The AVM does not display column labels if you
    use the SIDE-LABELS or NO-LABELS options with the Frame phrase.

    If you define a variable to be LIKE a field, and that field has a column label in the
    Data Dictionary, the variable inherits that column label.

CONTEXT-HELP-ID expression: An integer value that specifies the identifier of the help topic for
    this variable in a help file specified at the session, window or dialog box level using
    the CONTEXT-HELP-FILE attribute.

DCOLOR expression: Specifies the display color for the variable in character interfaces.
    This option is ignored in graphical interfaces.

DECIMALS  n: Specifies the number of decimal places to store for a DECIMAL
    variable, where n is an integer constant. When you
    define a variable AS DECIMAL, ABL automatically stores up to 10 decimal places for the
    value of that variable. Use the DECIMALS option to store a smaller number of decimal
    places. The DECIMALS option has nothing to do with the display format of the variable,
    just the storage format.

    If you use the LIKE option to name a field
    whose definition you want to use to define a variable, ABL uses the number of decimals
    in the field definition to determine how many decimal places to store for the
    variable.

    Note: The XML-WRITE() method on a
    temp-table, temp-table buffer, or ProDataSet object also uses the DECIMALS attribute
    to determine the number of decimal places to export to the XML Document.

DROP-TARGET: Indicates whether you want to be able to drop a file onto the
    object.

    The following example shows setting the DROP-TARGET option
    for a variable:

FGCOLOR expression: Specifies a foreground color for the variable in graphical
    interfaces. This option is ignored in character interfaces.

FONT expression: Specifies a font for the variable.

FORMAT string: The data format of the variable you define. If you use the AS
    primitive-type-name option and you do not use
    FORMAT string, the variable uses the default format
    for its data type. The following table lists the default data formats for the data
    types.

    Table 1. Default display formats

    Note: You cannot display a BLOB, CLOB, MEMPTR, RAW, or ROWID value directly.
    However, you can convert a MEMPTR, RAW, or ROWID value to a character string
    representation using the STRING function and display the result. You can also convert
    a BLOB to a MEMPTR, and then use the STRING function. A MEMPTR or RAW value converts
    to decimal integer string. A ROWID value converts to a hexadecimal string, "0xhexdigits", where
    hexdigits is any number of characters "0"
    through "9" and "A" through "F". You can only display a LONGCHAR using the VIEW-AS
    EDITOR LARGE phrase. You can display a CLOB field by converting it to a
    LONGCHAR.

    Note: If you display a class instance using the MESSAGE statement, ABL automatically invokes the ToString() method (Object) (provided by the Progress.Lang.Object class) on the object
    reference. To display a class instance in a frame (for example, using the DISPLAY statement), you must first
    explicitly convert the object reference to a displayable type using the INT64 function, the INTEGER function, the STRING function, or the ToString() method (Object).

    See Develop ABL Applications for more
    information on data formatting.

    If you use the LIKE field option and you do not use the FORMAT string option, the variable uses the format defined for
    the database field you name. You must enclose the string
    in quotes.

INITIAL {constant| [ constant[, constant]... ] }: The initial value of the variable you want to define. If you use the
    AS primitive-type-name option and you do not use
    the INITIAL constant option, the default is the
    initial value for the data type of the variable or array element.

    When you define an array variable, you can supply initial values for each element in
    the array. For example:

    If you do not supply enough values to fill up the elements
    of the array, the AVM puts the last value you named into the remaining elements of the
    array. If you supply too many values, the AVM raises an error.

    If you define a variable as an indeterminate array, and you supply
    initial values for elements in the array, the AVM sets the size to the number of
    elements in the array. You can then use the array as you would a determinate array,
    but you can also change its size later, if desired.

    You can also use the EXTENT statement to set or reset the
    number of elements in an indeterminate array variable. For more information, see the
    EXTENT statement reference
    entry.

    The following table lists the default initial values
    for the various variable data types.

    Table 2. Default variable initial values

    Note: You cannot use the INITIAL option of the variable definition to
    specify an initial value for CLASS, COM-HANDLE, HANDLE, MEMPTR, RAW, and ROWID data
    types.

    If you are using the LIKE field option and you do not use the INITIAL constant option, the variable uses the initial value of the field or
    variable. In the DEFINE SHARED VARIABLE statement, the INITIAL option has no effect.
    However, the DEFINE NEW SHARED VARIABLE, the DEFINE NEW SHARED TEMP-TABLE, and the
    DEFINE NEW WORK-TABLE statements work with the INITIAL option.

LABEL string[, string]...: The label you want to use when the variable is displayed. If you use
    the AS primitive-type-name option and you do not use
    the LABEL string option, the default label is the
    variable name. If you use the LIKE field option and
    you do not use the LABEL string option, the variable
    uses the label of the field or variable you name. You must enclose the string in quotes.

    You can specify a
    label for each element in a determinate array variable. You cannot specify a label for
    elements in an indeterminate array variable.

    In MS-Windows,
    you can designate a character within each label as a navigation mnemonic. Precede the
    character with an ampersand (&). When the variable is displayed with side labels,
    the mnemonic is underlined. The user can move focus to the variable by pressing ALT and the underlined letter.
    Navigation mnemonics operate only when you use side labels. If you specify more than
    one widget with the same mnemonic, the AVM transfers focus to each of these in tab
    order when you make a selection.

    Ending a label with an
    ampersand might produce unwanted behavior. To include a literal ampersand within a
    label, specify a double ampersand (&&).

MOUSE-POINTER expression: Specifies the default mouse pointer for the variable.

NO-UNDO: When the value of a variable is changed during a transaction and the
    transaction is undone, the AVM restores the value of the variable to its prior value. If
    you do not want, or if you do not need, the value of a variable to be undone even when
    it has been changed during a transaction, use the NO-UNDO option with the DEFINE
    VARIABLE statement. NO-UNDO variables are more efficient; use this option whenever
    possible.

    Specifying NO-UNDO for a variable is especially useful if
    you want to indicate an error condition as the value of the variable, perform an UNDO,
    and later take some action based on that error condition. If one variable is defined
    LIKE another that is NO-UNDO, the second variable will be NO-UNDO only if you specify
    NO-UNDO in the definition of the second variable.

PFCOLOR expression: Specifies the prompt-for color for the variable in character
    interfaces. This option is ignored in graphical interfaces.

view-as-phrase: Specifies the default data representation widget for this variable.
    Following is the syntax for the view-as-phrase:

    For more information on view-as-phrase, see the VIEW-AS phrase reference entry.

trigger-phrase: Defines triggers for the data representation widget specified in the
    view-as-phrase. Following is the syntax for the
    trigger-phrase:

    For more information on triggers, see the Trigger phrase reference
    entry.

Example

The r-dfvar.p procedure defines two variables, del
and nrecs to be shared with procedure r-dfvar2.p. The
del variable passes information to r-dfvar2.p, while
nrecs passes information back to r-dfvar.p from
r-dfvar2.p.

r-dfvar.p

r-dfvar2.p

The following example is a startup procedure. It defines a new global variable with the
initial value TRUE and uses that variable to determine whether to run an initialization
procedure, r-init.p, that displays sign-on messages. Then the global
variable first-time is set to FALSE. If you restart this procedure during the same session
(pressed STOP), r-init.p does not run
again.

The procedure also defines the variable selection for entering menu choices within this
procedure:

r-dfvar3.p

The following procedure finds the day of the week of a date the user enters. The procedure
defines an array with seven elements and uses the INITIAL option to define the initial value
of each element in the array.

r-dfvar4.p

The following example defines a variable with a VIEW-AS phrase and a Trigger phrase:

r-defsel.p

For examples of instance and static variable data member definitions, see the descriptions
of r-CustObj.cls, r-CustObjStatic.cls, and
r-CustObjAbstract.cls in the CLASS statement reference entry.

Notes

 You can use the DEFINE VARIABLE statement anywhere. However, all references to the
  variable must appear after the DEFINE VARIABLE statement that defines it.
 You cannot define a variable as a BLOB or CLOB field. You can define a variable using
  their MEMPTR and LONGCHAR counterparts, respectively.
 A HANDLE variable defined as a static data member can reference the handle of any
  compile-time defined (static) or run-time defined (dynamic) handle-based object, such as a
  button, temp-table, or ProDataSet.
 Defining a LONGCHAR variable supports the same options as a CHARACTER variable, except
  for the FORMAT option and all VIEW-AS options except VIEW-AS EDITOR LARGE.
 You should use the CASE-SENSITIVE option only when it is important to distinguish
  between uppercase and lowercase values entered for a character variable. For example, use
  CASE-SENSITIVE to define a variable for a part number that contains mixed uppercase and
  lowercase characters.
 After you use the DEFINE NEW GLOBAL SHARED VARIABLE statement to create a global shared
  variable, use the DEFINE SHARED VARIABLE statements in other procedures to access that
  variable.
 You cannot define the same global variable twice in the same ABL session. If you try,
  and the definitions of the two variables do not match, the AVM raises an error. If the
  definitions of the two variables match, the AVM disregards the second variable you tried
  to define (if you are rerunning a startup procedure).
 Changes made to variables when there is no active transaction are not undone when a
  block is undone.
 When a procedure names and uses a shared variable:
• The AVM searches through the calling chain of procedures looking for the most recent
    DEFINE NEW SHARED VARIABLE statement that created that shared variable.
• If no DEFINE NEW SHARED VARIABLE statement is found, the AVM searches for a DEFINE
    NEW GLOBAL SHARED VARIABLE statement that created the shared variable.
• If the procedure that names the shared variable is called from a trigger or internal
    procedure that is part of a persistent procedure context, the persistent context is
    also checked for the most recent DEFINE NEW SHARED VARIABLE or DEFINE NEW GLOBAL
    SHARED VARIABLE statement at the point in the calling chain where the trigger or
    internal procedure is executed.
• If the AVM finds one of these statements, it does not search any further for other
    statements that might have defined the same variable as NEW or NEW GLOBAL.
 The AVM checks the definition of a SHARED variable against that of the corresponding NEW
  SHARED or NEW GLOBAL SHARED variable. The data types and array extents must match. If the
  FORMAT, LABEL and DECIMALS specifications are not the same, each procedure uses its
  individual specification. The DEFINE NEW SHARED statement determines if a shared variable
  is NO-UNDO.
 A SHARED variable remains in scope for an instance of a persistent procedure until the
  instance is deleted. This is true even if the original procedure that defined the variable
  as NEW SHARED goes out of scope while the procedure instance remains persistent.

  If a
  trigger or internal procedure of a persistent procedure executes an external
  subprocedure that defines a SHARED variable, the AVM includes the persistent procedure
  in the resolution of the corresponding NEW SHARED variable as though the procedure were
  on the procedure call stack.
 If an application with several procedures defines a NEW SHARED variable with the same
  name in each procedure, the AVM creates a different instance of the NEW SHARED variable in
  each procedure. This behavior supports recursive procedures and bill-of-materials
  applications.
 You can neither define a SHARED or NEW SHARED variable, nor access such a variable
  defined in a procedure file, from within a class definition (.cls) file.
  If you do, ABL generates a compilation error. However, multiple procedure
  (.p) files can define and access an object reference variable for a
  class instance as a NEW SHARED or NEW GLOBAL SHARED variable. In this case, the object
  reference variables must be defined for the same class (not a subclass or a super class)
  in all procedures that use them.
 For SpeedScript, the following options are invalid: BGCOLOR, CONTEXT-HELP-ID, DCOLOR,
  FONT, FGCOLOR, MOUSE-POINTER, PFCOLOR, and view-as-phrase.

See also

Class-based data member access, DEFINE BUFFER statement, RUN statement, Trigger phrase, Type-name syntax, USING statement, VAR statement, VIEW-AS phrase




VAR statement

Defines a variable. The VAR
statement is a short-hand notation for the DEFINE VARIABLE statement. Variables defined with the VAR statement are NO-UNDO, meaning
that the value of the variable will not be restored if the variable changed during a
transaction and the transaction is undone. If you wish to have the option to restore
the variable to its prior value, use the DEFINE
VARIABLE statement instead.

Syntax

access-mode: Specifies an access mode (PRIVATE, PACKAGE-PRIVATE,
    PROTECTED, PACKAGE-PROTECTED, or PUBLIC) for the user-defined class variable. For more
    information, see Access modes in Object-oriented ABL Developer Guided
    Journey.

STATIC: Indicates that the user-defined class variable is scoped
    to the ABL session where it is referenced. ABL creates one copy of the
    specified class static variable on first reference to the class type, and
    ABL creates only one such copy for any number of instances of the class that
    you create. You can reference an accessible static variable data member in
    any piece of code

    Without the STATIC option, the user-defined class variable is scoped
    to a single instance of the class where it is defined. ABL creates one
    copy of the specified instance variable for each such class instance
    that you create. You can reference any public instance variable in any
    procedure, or in any instance or static method defined inside or outside
    of the class where the instance variable is defined. Any static method
    can reference the public instance variable only using an object
    reference to a class instance that defines the variable as a data
    member. If the referencing static method is defined in the same class as
    the public instance variable, the class must instantiate itself in order
    to have access to an instance reference.

SERIALIZABLE | NON-SERIALIZABLE: Indicates whether the user-defined class variable will
    participate in serialization. SERIALIZABLE and NON-SERIALIZABLE options can only be used with instance (not
    STATIC) variables. For more
    information, see Serialization and
    deserialization in Develop
    Object-oriented ABL Applications.

type: Specifies a built-in data type for the variable you are
    defining. Type can be one of the
    following: CHAR, CHARACTER, COM-HANDLE, DATE, DATETIME, DATETIME-TZ,
    DECIMAL, HANDLE, INT, INTEGER, INT64, LOGICAL, LONGCHAR, MEMPTR, RAW, RECID,
    or ROWID. Type cannot be
    abbreviated.

    Note: CHAR is a synonym for CHARACTER and INT is a synonym
    for INTEGER.

    For more information on ABL data
    types, see Data types.

[CLASS] classname: Indicates that the variable is an object of type classname. The CLASS keyword is optional.
    However, if the specified class or interface type name conflicts with an
    abbreviation for a built-in primitive type name, such as INT for INTEGER,
    you must specify the CLASS keyword.

    For more information
    on object references, see the Class-based object reference
    entry.

[size]: Indicates that the variable is an array. size is optional and specifies the number of
    elements in the array. If size is
    specified, it must be an integer constant. If size is not specified ([]), then the variable is considered an indeterminate array. For
    more information about arrays, see Work with one-dimensional
    arrays in Basic ABL.

variable: Specifies the name of the variable. Variable names must
    begin with a letter, but subsequent characters can include letters, numeric
    digits, periods(.), hyphens(-), and underscores(\_). Variable names are
    case-insensitive.

expression: An Expression which evaluates to
    a data type that is consistent with the data type of the defined
    variable.

Examples

The following example code shows variable declarations using
VAR.

Notes

 VAR may only be used at the
  beginning of an ABL routine, before any executable statements in the block.

  If in a procedure, the VAR statement must follow these statements:
• USING...
• BLOCK-LEVEL ON ERROR
    UNDO, THROW.
• ROUTINE-LEVEL ON ERROR
    UNDO, THROW.

  If in a class, the VAR
  statement:
• Must come after the CLASS
    statement.
• Can be in any order within the class, like other
    class members.
• Must be at the top of the block within a method or
    property body.
 VAR does not allow
  abbreviated data types. For example, when specifying a decimal variable, you
  cannot write VAR DEC. You must write VAR DECIMAL. In Release 12.3, CHAR and INT are
  actual keywords and not abbreviations. CHAR is a synonym for CHARACTER and INT
  is a synonym for INTEGER. Therefore you can write VAR
  CHAR or VAR INT.
 Other options allowed with the DEFINE VARIABLE statement, such as FORMAT or LABEL, cannot be used
  with VAR. If you need those other options,
  use the DEFINE VARIABLE statement
  instead.
 Uninitialized elements in a
  determinate array object variable are set to the Unknown (?) value, unlike scalar array variables where
  uninitialized elements are set to the last initialized value, if any.

See also

DEFINE VARIABLE statement, Data types, EXTENT statement, NEW function (classes)




VIEW-AS phrase

Defines a compile-time defined (static) widget
to represent a field or variable on the screen.

Note: Does
not apply to SpeedScript programming.

Syntax

Use the following syntax to specify the type
of widget to use for displaying values in a browse column:

combo-box-phrase: Specifies that a field or variable is viewed as a combo box
    widget. You can use a combo box to represent a value of any data
    type. This is the syntax for combo-box-phrase:

    Use the following syntax to specify a combo-box
    widget for displaying values in a browse column:

    Note: In a character interface, browse
    columns are always displayed as fill-in widgets no matter what VIEW-AS
    option you specify.

    For more information, see the COMBO-BOX phrase reference
    entry.

editor-phrase: Specifies that a CHARACTER or LONGCHAR field or variable is
    viewed as a text editor widget. A text editor widget supports cut,
    paste, word-wrap, and auto-indent features. This is the syntax for editor-phrase:

    For more information, see the EDITOR phrase reference
    entry.

FILL-IN [ NATIVE ] [ size-phrase ]: Specifies that the field or variable is viewed as a fill-in
    widget. In a fill-in field, the literal value of the field or variable
    is displayed. On update, the user types the literal value into the
    fill-in field.

    You can specify FILL-IN for any CHARACTER,
    INT64, INTEGER, DECIMAL, DATE, DATETIME, DATETIME-TZ, or LOGICAL
    value (with or without extents). FILL-IN is the default representation
    for those values.

    Note that Windows allows a user to transfer
    focus to the fill-in field by pressing ALT and
    one of the letters in the label. For more information on specifying
    a label using the LABEL option, see the Format phrase reference
    entry.

    If you specify NATIVE, then the field behaves like
    a native fill-in field under the current user interface. A non-NATIVE
    field behaves like a default ABL fill-in field under any interface.
    Native fill-in fields provide better consistency with other applications
    in graphical environments, but do not support some ABL constructs
    such as the UPDATE statement with the TEXT option or the CHOOSE
    statement.

    When a non-NATIVE (ABL) fill-in is disabled, the
    border disappears, but the text does not gray out. When a NATIVE
    fill-in is disabled, the text grays out.

    Like the other static
    widgets that can be defined using the VIEW-AS phrase, you can specify
    ToolTips for the fill-in widget using the TOOLTIP option.

radio-set-phrase: Specifies that the field or variable is viewed as a radio
    set widget. A radio button set is a series of buttons, of which
    only one can be TRUE at a time. When the user sets one of the buttons
    to TRUE, the others are set to FALSE. You can specify a radio-set-phrase for
    any group of CHARACTER, INT64, INTEGER, DECIMAL, DATE, or LOGICAL
    values (with or without extents). This is the syntax for radio-set-phrase:

    Note: If two or more buttons of a
    radio set use the same label, the AVM uses only the value of the
    first button.

    For more information, see the RADIO-SET phrase reference
    entry.

selection-list-phrase: Specifies that the field or variable is viewed as a selection
    list widget. You can only specify the selection-list-phrase for
    a character-string value. A selection list is a scrollable list
    of CHARACTER values. If the field is enabled for input, the user
    can select one or more values from the list. This is the syntax
    for selection-list-phrase:

    For more information, see the SELECTION-LIST phrase reference
    entry.

slider-phrase: Specifies that the field or variable is viewed as a slider.
    Specify the slider-phrase for an integer value
    only. A slider is a graphical representation of a numeric range.
    It is composed of a rectangular area that contains a trackbar. You
    can change the current value within a defined range by moving the
    pointer that resides on the trackbar. This is the syntax for slider-phrase:

    For more information, see the SLIDER phrase reference
    entry.

TEXT [ size-phrase ]: Specifies that the field or variable is viewed as read-only
    text. In a graphical environment, a text field takes up less space
    on the screen than a native fill-in field.

    You can specify
    TEXT for any CHARACTER, INT64, INTEGER, DECIMAL, DATE, or LOGICAL
    value (with or without extents).

TOGGLE-BOX [ size-phrase ]: Specifies that the field or variable is viewed as a toggle
    box widget. A toggle box is a small box that is either marked or
    not marked to indicate a TRUE or FALSE value, respectively. You
    can specify TOGGLE-BOX for any LOGICAL value, or any calculated
    value whose expression evaluates to a LOGICAL value.

    Note
    that Windows allows a user to select a toggle-box item by pressing ALT and one of the letters in the
    side label. For more information on specifying a label using the
    LABEL option, see the Format phrase reference
    entry.

    For toggle-box browse columns, the toggle-box always
    appears whether it is enabled or not. A solid outline appears to
    indicate that a cell in a toggle-box column currently has focus.
    The toggle-box is always centered within the column. You cannot
    specify size-phrase for toggle-box browse columns.

    Note: In a character interface, browse columns are always
    displayed as fill-in widgets no matter what VIEW-AS option you specify.

TOOLTIP tooltip: Allows you to define a help text message for a toggle box.
    The AVM automatically displays this text when the user pauses the
    mouse over the toggle-box.

    You can add or change the TOOLTIP
    option at any time. If TOOLTIP is set to "" or the Unknown value (?),
    then the ToolTip is removed. No ToolTip is the default. The TOOLTIP
    option is supported in Windows only.

Example

The
following procedure defines a character variable and views it in
succession as a text widget, a fill-in widget, an editor widget,
and finally as a text widget again. The procedure shows that you
can represent a character variable in several ways, as long as each
representation appears in a separate frame.

r-viewas.p

For additional examples, see the COMBO-BOX phrase, EDITOR phrase, RADIO-SET phrase, SELECTION-LIST phrase,
and SLIDER phrase reference
entries.

Notes

 To
  create a static widget, you must define a static frame that contains
  the widget. Each frame you define that contains the widget creates
  an additional instance of that widget for the underlying field or variable.
  The handle for a static widget is not available until the widget
  is created.
 You can also use the VIEW-AS option in the Frame phrase and MESSAGE
  statement to indicate a dialog box and alert box, respectively.
• In Windows, if no font is specified for a fill-in field, ABL uses two
  default fonts:
• A fixed font for date fields, numeric fields, and character fields
    that contain fill characters (such as the parentheses surrounding the area code of a
    telephone number).
• A proportional font for character fields that do not contain fill
    characters.

  The AVM looks for these fonts in the current environment, which
  may be the registry (Windows only) or an initialization file. If the current environment
  does not define these fonts, the AVM uses the system default fixed and proportional
  fonts. For more information on environments, see Manage ABL
  Applications.

See also

COMBO-BOX phrase, EDITOR phrase, RADIO-SET phrase, SELECTION-LIST phrase, SIZE phrase, SLIDER phrase




