Widget Reference

This section contains reference entries that describe
the ABL widgets. Widgets are handle-based objects that provide visual
representations of data and other elements of a user interface.

Like all handle-based objects, widgets support attributes and
methods to access and manipulate widget state and behavior. Widgets
also support events to which an application can respond to interact
with the state and behavior of each widget. For more information
on the attributes and methods listed for each widget, see the Handle Attributes and Methods Reference. For more information on the events listed
for each widget, see the Handle-based Object Events Reference. For information on non-visual handle-based
objects, see the Handle Reference.

You may consider a user-interface widget to be supported for
all interfaces and on all operating systems unless otherwise indicated
in the reference entry. These user-interface widgets do not apply
to SpeedScript programming.

Because widgets are not realized in batch mode, you cannot use
any method or attribute that requires the widget to be realized
in batch mode.

Note: Of the common attributes listed for the following
widgets, BGCOLOR, FGCOLOR, FONT, MOVABLE, RESIZABLE, and SELECTABLE apply
only to graphical interfaces; DCOLOR and PFCOLOR apply only to character
interfaces. In character interfaces, all attributes and methods
that reference pixels (for example HEIGHT-PIXELS) use a system default
pixel value for the equivalent value in characters.

The following descriptions refer to both compile-time and run-time behavior,
features that the language generally supports and determines at compile
time and actions directed by using these features at run time. When describing
compile-time features or actions, this section references ABL or
the ABL compiler. When describing ABL-directed actions taken at
run time, this section references the ABL Virtual Machine (AVM).




High-level widget events

Handle-based Object Events Reference - High-level widget events
The following table lists high-level widget events. These are events generated by mouse or
keyboard actions that perform high-level operations on a widget, such as entering a fill-in,
choosing a button, or displaying a menu. Unless noted in the AVM Action column, triggers on
these events execute before the AVM applies the event. If the trigger returns NO-APPLY, the
AVM does not apply the event. If the trigger executes after the event takes place, NO-APPLY
has no effect.

Note: If a CHOOSE, DEFAULT-ACTION, or VALUE-CHANGED event executes a trigger as a
result of a mouse click that changes input focus, NO-APPLY will return focus to the widget
that had focus prior to the event.

Table 1. High-level widget events




Widget color , font , and measurement values

Handle Attributes and Methods Reference - Widget color, font, and measurement values
Some entries in this section refer to color and font values (for example,
BGCOLOR and FONT). These values are color and font numbers established for your system. Some
entries in this section also refer to character units, an ABL unit of measure for specifying
portable widget sizes and positions in graphical environments. For more information on color
and font values, or character units and their relationship to pixels, see OpenEdge Programming Interfaces.

Note: When you assign a decimal value to an attribute
representing a measurement in character units, ABL automatically
rounds the assigned value to the nearest decimal value that corresponds
to whole pixel units.




BROWSE widget

A browse widget lets you see data and select records from all the records
associated with a database query. You can define a static browse widget with the DEFINE BROWSE statement or a dynamic browse widget with the CREATE BROWSE statement. A browse can be either a read-only tool for
browsing through records, or it can be an editing tool for updating records, depending on
the options you specify.

You can move and resize the browse and its components. Specifically, in
graphical interfaces, you can move and resize the browse, move and change the width of the
browse-column, and change the height of the browse-row. You can do all this through direct
manipulation (by pointing, clicking, and dragging) and through ABL.

Tip: See the Use the Browse Object topics in Develop ABL
Applications for more information and examples of how to work with Browse
objects.

You can also use the mouse wheel to scroll the browse widget horizontally
and vertically in Windows. When you rotate the mouse wheel up and down, the browse scrolls
vertically up and down. When you rotate the mouse wheel up and down while holding down the
CTRL key, the browse scrolls horizontally
left and right. You can specify the number of rows the browse scrolls up and down per click
of the mouse wheel on the Wheel tab in the Windows Mouse Properties dialog box (accessed
through the Windows Control Panel).

The following figure shows a read-only browse widget with colors applied to
some of the rows using the BGCOLOR attribute. Note that the fifth row is selected:

The following figure shows an updatable browse. Note the inline editing
capability in the focused row:

Accessing browse attributes and methods

When accessing browse attributes and methods, it is important to understand
the scope of each attribute and method. An attribute or method can apply to:

 The browse widget as a whole.
 A single browse column. In this case, any attribute or method that
  applies to a browse column, applies to:
• All cells in the browse column (that is, all cells of the given
    column for all rows of the browse)
• Any type of browse column (fill-in, combo-box, or toggle-box),
    except where noted
 A single browse cell. In this case, the attribute or method applies to
  only the given cell at the intersection of the referenced column and the focused row.
 Both the browse as a whole and a column or cell. For example, in the
  same trigger, you could change the background color of the whole browse to blue and the
  background color of the current cell to yellow.

Syntax

When accessing attributes and methods that apply to a browse widget as a
whole, you must reference the browse widget using its name or handle, as shown in the
following syntax examples:

The IN FRAME qualifier is only necessary for a static
browse to avoid ambiguity.

When accessing attributes and methods that apply to a browse column or
cell, you must reference the browse column or cell using the browse column's name or handle,
as shown in the following syntax examples:

The IN BROWSE qualifier is only necessary for a static
browse to avoid ambiguity, but it is good programming practice to always include it,
especially when you reference the same field as a separate widget type.

To access attributes and methods for a specific browse cell, you must be
sure that a row is selected. You typically access browse cell attributes and methods in a
ROW-DISPLAY trigger.

For more information about accessing widget attributes and methods, see the
Handle Attributes and Methods Reference.

Attributes

The following table lists all the attributes for the browse widget and
their scope:

Methods

The following table lists all the methods for the browse widget and their
scope:

Events

The following table lists all the events for the browse widget and their
scope:

See also

DEFINE BROWSE statement, CREATE BROWSE statement, Use the Browse Object topics in Develop ABL
Applications.




BUTTON widget

A button widget represents a push button on the screen. The button can contain a textual
label or it can have images associated with its pressed and unpressed states. You can define
a static button with the DEFINE BUTTON statement. You can
create dynamic buttons with the CREATE widget statement. This
figure shows three buttons:

Attributes

Methods

Events

See also

DEFINE BUTTON statement, CREATE widget statement




COMBO-BOX widget

A combo box is a field-level widget that combines the functionality of a fill-in field,
radio set, and selection list into one fill-in and drop down list. You can set up a static
combo box widget with the VIEW-AS phrase. You can create a
dynamic combo box with the CREATE widget statement. The
following figure shows a combo box:

Attributes

Methods

Events

See also

CREATE widget statement, VIEW-AS phrase




CONTROL-FRAME widget

(Windows only; Graphical
interfaces only)

A control-frame is a field-level widget that
holds an ActiveX control that you select for your application from
the OpenEdge AppBuilder. A control-frame is always created dynamically.

A
control-frame has no visualization.

The AVM instantiates two
separate but related objects when you create a control-frame:

 A control-frame widget
 A control-frame COM object

The widget itself provides
a connection between the ActiveX control and the ABL user interface.
When the widget is realized, the AVM creates a COM object that provides
the real ActiveX control container support. Thus, the control-frame
widget provides widget attributes and methods to manage the ABL
side of the interface, while the control-frame COM object provides
COM object properties and methods to gain access to the control
itself.

When you insert an ActiveX control into your application, the AppBuilder creates a
control-frame with the CREATE widget statement and specifies a
default name (NAME attribute value) for the widget. The AppBuilder creates a design-time
instance of the ActiveX control based on the control you select in the AppBuilder, making
its design-time properties available to the AppBuilder. When you save your application, the
AppBuilder saves the design-time instance in a separate file (with.wrx
extension) for use at run time.

At
run time, your application accesses the control indirectly through
the control-frame widget. First, you use the COM-HANDLE attribute to
return a component handle to the control-frame COM object. Second,
you use this handle to access properties and methods of the control-frame
COM object, which provide access to the ActiveX control itself.

This
is a SmartViewer into which a developer, using the AppBuilder, has dropped
a literal widget, a fill-in widget, and a control-frame widget.
The control-frame widget holds a Crescent spin control, as shown:

Attributes

Control-frame
widget attributes

Properties

Control-frame COM object properties1

Methods

Control-frame widget methods:

Control-frame COM object methods:4

Events

Notes

 You
  must use the AppBuilder to incorporate one or more ActiveX control
  instances into an ABL application. The AppBuilder, operating in
  design mode, provides the facilities to set design-time properties for
  ActiveX controls.
 After incorporating ActiveX controls into an application with
  the AppBuilder, the resulting window file, when compiled and executed, interacts
  with the ActiveX controls at run time.
 To access a loaded ActiveX control at run time, use the control-frame COM-HANDLE
  attribute to get a handle to the control-frame COM object. To return
  a handle to the control, use the design-time name of the ActiveX
  control as a property of the control-frame COM object. For example:

  As an alternative, use the COM object Controls
  property to return a handle to a control collection. Use the control
  collection Item(1) method call to return the handle to the ActiveX
  control. (This control collection object provides support for searching
  multiple ActiveX controls in a control-frame, available in a future
  release of OpenEdge.)
 You can use a single ActiveX control more than once in a single window
  file. Each time you insert the control, the AppBuilder creates a separate
  control-frame for it with a unique NAME attribute value.
 Some control-frame widget attributes correspond to control-frame COM
  object properties so that setting one sets the other. You must directly
  set and read all ActiveX control run-time properties using a handle
  (also a COM-HANDLE value) to the control.
 To trap control-frame events, use the ON statement, as with any ABL widget. To trap
  events for the associated ActiveX control, you must use ActiveX control (OCX) event
  procedures. Also, to "apply" an ActiveX control event from ABL, run the event procedure
  directly, like any ABL internal procedure. The APPLY statement has no effect on ActiveX
  controls. For more information, see the reference entries for the PROCEDURE statement and RUN statement.
• ABL control-frame events are mutually exclusive with associated ActiveX
  control events. That is, only one event handler, either an ON trigger
  or an event procedure, fires for a single event.

See also

CREATE widget statement, Topics on ActiveX
control container support in OpenEdge Programming
Interfaces




DIALOG-BOX widget

A dialog box is a special type of frame that
is displayed in its own window. A dialog box differs from a window
in two major respects:

 It has a system window ventilator,
  but has no affordances for minimizing or maximizing.
 While a dialog box has input focus, your application cannot
  perform any other processing until you complete the input or otherwise
  close the dialog box. That is, it is modal.

You can specify that a frame be displayed as a dialog box by using the VIEW-AS phrase. You can create a dynamic dialog box with the CREATE widget statement.

A dialog
box can contain a frame family acting as the root frame. However a
dialog box cannot be a child of another frame or dialog box; it
can only be parented by a window.

The following example dialog
box contains:

 Two fill-ins
 One radio set
 One toggle box
 Five buttons

Attributes

Methods

Events

Note

Generally,
your application must wait to complete dialog box input before continuing
with other processing. However, the WAIT-FOR statement for the procedure
can also respond to an event for a procedure handle as long as the widget
in the WAIT-FOR statement widget list is a procedure handle.

See also

CREATE widget statement, FRAME widget, WAIT-FOR statement (ABL only), VIEW-AS phrase,
WINDOW widget




EDITOR widget

An editor is a field-level widget that allows you to perform complex text manipulation on a
character value. You can set up a static editor widget with the VIEW-AS phrase. You can create a dynamic editor widget with the
CREATE widget statement. For example:

Attributes

Methods

Events

See also

CREATE widget statement, VIEW-AS phrase




FIELD-GROUP widget

A field group is the hidden parent of field-level
widgets and child frames owned by a parent frame or dialog box.
Thus, field groups are the actual children of frames and dialog
boxes. A frame contains the following field groups:

 A
  background field group (which includes the frame header)
 For a one-down frame or dialog box: a single data field group containing
  field-level widgets and child frames
• For a multiple-down frame: one data field group for each data
  iteration in the frame

A field group has no visible
representation. You cannot explicitly define or create field groups.
They are generated automatically when frames are defined or created.

Attributes

Note: For a field group, all of these
attributes are read-only except for PRIVATE-DATA and SENSITIVE.

Methods

Events

The
FIELD-GROUP widget does not support any events.

See also

DIALOG-BOX widget, FRAME widget




FILL-IN widget

A fill-in widget is the simplest form of data representation. Within a fill-in, the field
value is displayed as a string of characters that you can edit. A fill-in is the default
representation for data. You can explicitly set up a static fill-in with the VIEW-AS phrase. You can create a dynamic fill-in with the CREATE widget statement.

Note: The default sizing of fill-ins occurs only when you use the default font.
When you explicitly specify a font, the AVM uses the average width of that font.

Attributes

Methods

Events

See also

CREATE widget statement, VIEW-AS phrase




FRAME widget

A frame is a display area within a window that can group together (contain) a set of
field-level widgets and child frames. In addition to default frames set up by ABL, you can
set up static frames with the Frame phrase or DEFINE FRAME statement. You can create a dynamic one-down frame
with the CREATE widget statement.

Related
field-level widgets and child frames are actually parented by a
single field group widget, which is owned, in turn, by the parenting
frame. You parent static field-level widgets to a static frame using
a DEFINE FRAME, FORM, or FRAME I/O statement. You parent dynamic
field-level widgets to any frame by setting the FRAME attribute of
each field-level widget to the handle of the parent frame. You can
parent frame widgets to any frame by setting the FRAME attribute
of each child frame to the handle of its parent frame.

Frames
in a parent and child relationship form a frame family, which is
a hierarchy of parent and child frames ultimately parented by a
window. The top parent frame that is parented by the window is the
root frame of the frame family.

The following figure shows
a frame family with four frames, including three child frames titled
Contact Information, Account Information, and PREVIOUS/NEXT:

Attributes

Methods

Events

Notes

 Field-level
  widgets and child frames are not directly parented by a parent frame.
  They are parented by field groups that are owned by the parent frame.
  Thus, you can also parent a child frame by setting the child frame's
  PARENT attribute to the handle of a field group in the parent frame.

  To
  access all the field-level widgets and child frames owned by a frame,
  you must first use the frame's FIRST-CHILD or LAST-CHILD attribute
  to find a field group within the frame. You can then use the field group's
  NEXT-SIBLING or PREV-SIBLING attribute to find other field groups
  in the frame. You can use the field group's FIRST-CHILD or LAST-CHILD
  attribute to find a field-level widget or child frame within the
  field group. You can then use the field-level widget's or child
  frame's NEXT-SIBLING or PREV-SIBLING attribute to find other field-level widgets
  and child frames within the frame.
 Child frames do not inherit the attributes of a parent frame.
 When any of a frame's field-level widgets or child frames are
  viewed using the DISPLAY or ENABLE statement, the parent frame also
  becomes visible unless its HIDDEN attribute or the HIDDEN attribute
  of an ancestor widget is TRUE. However, explicitly setting the VISIBLE
  attribute to TRUE (using the VIEW statement) for a child frame or
  field-level widget makes all ancestor frames visible, unless the
  parent or an ancestor window has its HIDDEN attribute set to TRUE.
 Child frames participate in the tab order along with any field-level
  widgets in the same parent frame. This means that the tab orders of all field-level
  widgets within a child frame is placed as a group within the tab order of the siblings of
  that child frame. Thus, tabbing proceeds between the field-level widgets of a root frame
  and the field-level widgets of all descendant frames. However, tabbing is not supported
  between sibling root frames (frames parented by a window).
 You specify the position of a child frame relative to the display
  area of the parent frame. You must specify the position so that
  the upper left corner of the child frame lies within the display
  region of the parent frame. Otherwise at run time, when the procedure
  tries to realize the frame, the AVM raises the ERROR condition.
 When you apply a NEXT-FRAME or PREV-FRAME navigation key function
  to a field-level widget, focus changes from the current frame family
  to the next or previous frame family (respectively) parented by
  the same window. That is, these key functions change focus between
  root frames, not between descendant frames.
• In character interfaces, the SCROLL-MODE function key is available for
  a frame only if the SCROLLABLE attribute of the frame is TRUE. Scroll
  mode allows you to use the CURSOR-RIGHT and CURSOR-LEFT keys to
  scroll the frame horizontally. The SCROLL-MODE function key toggles
  scroll mode on and off for a frame that has focus.

See also

CREATE widget statement, DIALOG-BOX widget,
DEFINE FRAME statement, Frame phrase




IMAGE widget

(Graphical interfaces
only)

An image is a graphic taken from an operating system file. It can be used by itself or
within a button. You can define a static image with the DEFINE IMAGE statement, and create a dynamic image with the CREATE widget statement. You can specify an image for a button
using the DEFINE BUTTON statement or the button methods for
loading images.

Attributes

Methods

Events

See also

CREATE widget statement, DEFINE BUTTON statement, DEFINE IMAGE statement




LITERAL widget

A literal widget is the label for a static
field. If a field has a side label, you can find the handle of a
literal widget by reading the field's SIDE-LABEL-HANDLE attribute. If the field has a column label, you can find
the handle of the literal by examining the children of the frame's
background field group. You cannot create a literal widget dynamically.

Attributes

Methods

Events

The
literal widget does not support any events.

See also

SIDE-LABEL-HANDLE attribute




MENU-ITEM widget

A menu item is an item within a menu or submenu. A menu item can be a rule, a space, or a
normal menu item. A normal menu item can be a command or a toggle-box item. Most menu item
attributes and all menu item events apply only to normal menu items. You can set up a static
menu item within a DEFINE MENU statement or DEFINE SUB-MENU statement. You can create a dynamic menu item with
the CREATE widget statement.

The following is a menu containing four menu items:

Attributes

Note: Color and font attributes for a menu item are ignored in Windows.

Methods

The MENU-ITEM widget does not support any methods.

Events

See also

CREATE widget statement, DEFINE MENU statement, DEFINE SUB-MENU statement




MENU widget

A menu can be a menu bar or a pop-up menu. Menu bars contain sub-menus (specifically,
pull-down menus) and in some environments menu items. Pop-up menus contain menu items and
sub-menus. You can define a static menu with the DEFINE MENU statement. You can create a dynamic menu with the
CREATE widget statement.

The following is a menu bar:

The following is a pop-up menu:

Attributes

Note: Color and font attributes for a menu are ignored in Windows.

Methods

The MENU widget does not support any methods.

Events

See also

CREATE widget statement, DEFINE MENU statement




RADIO-SET widget

A radio set is a group of values of which only one can be set at any time. You can define a
static radio set by using the VIEW-AS phrase with any LOGICAL,
CHARACTER, INTEGER, INT64, DECIMAL, or DATE value. You can create a dynamic radio set with
the CREATE widget statement. For example:

Attributes

Methods

Events

See also

CREATE widget statement, VIEW-AS phrase




RECTANGLE widget

A rectangle is a graphical widget that can be displayed in a frame foreground or
background. You can define a static rectangle with the DEFINE RECTANGLE statement. You can create a dynamic rectangle
with the CREATE widget statement. For example:

Attributes

Methods

Events

See also

CREATE widget statement, DEFINE RECTANGLE statement




SELECTION-LIST widget

A selection list is a widget that contains a list of possible values for a field or
variable. You can use the VIEW-AS phrase to set up a static
selection list. You can use the CREATE widget statement to
create a dynamic selection list. For example:

Attributes

Methods

Events

See also

CREATE widget statement, VIEW-AS phrase




SHADOW-WINDOW widget

(Windows only; GUI for.NET)

A shadow window widget is a window associated
with a.NET form that allows.NET forms and ABL windows
to have parenting relationships to each other. A shadow window has
no visible representation. It exists solely to support a.NET form
and its relationship to ABL windows in an ABL session.

You cannot explicitly create or delete a shadow window. The ABL virtual machine (AVM)
automatically creates an associated shadow window when you instantiate a.NET form from the
OpenEdge.NET Progress.Windows.Form class, and it automatically
deletes the associated shadow window when you delete an instance
Progress.Windows.Form.

Attributes

Methods

The
SHADOW-WINDOW widget does not support any methods.

Events

The
SHADOW-WINDOW widget does not support any events.

Notes

 To
  obtain the shadow window handle of a.NET form, read the ProWinHandle property
  of the associated Progress.Windows.Form instance.
 To parent an ABL window to a.NET form, assign the shadow
  window handle of the.NET form to the PARENT attribute of
  the ABL window.
 To parent a.NET form to an ABL window, assign the handle
  of the ABL window to the PARENT attribute of the shadow window.
 Shadow windows have no NEXT-SIBLING attribute or PREV-SIBLING attribute and therefore do not appear on the session window
  chain.
• ABL does not create shadow windows for.NET forms that
  you instantiate from the System.Windows.Forms.Form class. Progress Software Corporation recommends
  that you always instantiate such forms from Progress.Windows.Form.

See also

Progress.Windows.Form class, ProWinHandle property, WINDOW widget




SLIDER widget

The slider widget represents an integer value as a point on a sliding scale. You can use
the VIEW-AS phrase to set up a static slider. You can use the
CREATE widget statement to create a dynamic slider. For
example:

Attributes

Methods

Events

Notes

 Only
  a value of the INTEGER or INT64 data type can be viewed as a slider.
  If using INT64, the value must remain within the -2147483648 to
  +2147483647 range.
 In character interfaces, a slider widget has a minimum width
  that is dependent on the specified maximum value (MAX-VALUE attribute). The
  minimum height for a slider widget in a character interface is 2
  character units. You can specify a value as low as 1.5 character
  units for the height of a slider in a character interface; however,
  ABL rounds the value up to 2 character units.

See also

CREATE widget statement, VIEW-AS phrase




SUB-MENU widget

A submenu can be a pull-down menu within a menu bar, or a submenu within a pull-down menu
or pop-up menu. You can define a static submenu with the DEFINE SUB-MENU statement. You can use the CREATE widget statement to create a dynamic submenu. For
example:

Attributes

Note: Color and font attributes for
a submenu are ignored in Windows.

Methods

The
SUB-MENU widget does not support any methods.

Events

See also

CREATE widget statement, DEFINE SUB-MENU statement




TEXT widget

You can use the text widget to display read-only text in a compact format. This is
especially useful when you are creating hard-copy reports. You can use the VIEW-AS phrase to set up a static text widget. You can use the
CREATE widget statement to create dynamic text widgets. For
example:

Attributes

Methods

Events

Note

You can
view a field as text by specifying VIEW-AS TEXT for the field. You can
make text the default representation for all fields in a frame by
specifying USE-TEXT for the frame.

See also

CREATE widget statement, VIEW-AS phrase




TOGGLE-BOX widget

You can use the toggle box widget to represent a logical value. You can use the VIEW-AS phrase to set up a static toggle box, or the CREATE widget statement to create a dynamic toggle box. This
figure shows five toggle boxes:

Attributes

Methods

Events

See also

CREATE widget statement, VIEW-AS phrase




WINDOW widget

A window is a rectangular area on the screen
that can contain frame widgets, parent dialog boxes, and parent
other windows. It is surrounded by a standard border and affordances
provided by your window system to manipulate the window's size,
location, and appearance on the screen.

The AVM automatically creates one default window for each session. You can create
additional dynamic windows with the CREATE widget statement.
Each additional window can be parented by the window system, creating siblings (the default)
or by another window, creating child and parent window relationships. You create a parent
and child relationship between two windows by setting the PARENT attribute of
one (the child) to the handle of the other (the parent).

Windows
in a parent and child relationship form a window family, which is
a hierarchy of parent and child windows ultimately parented by the
window system. The top parent window that is parented by the window
system is the root window of the window family.

The following
figure shows a window family consisting of a root window and its
child window:

Attributes

Methods

Events

Notes

 In
  character user interfaces, you can have only one window (the default
  window).
 Certain manipulations of a parent window have a default effect
  on its child windows and their descendants. You cannot modify the
  following effects:
• Iconifying a window (triggered by a WINDOW-MINIMIZED
    event or by setting the WINDOW-STATE attribute to WINDOW-MINIMIZED)
    causes any of its descendant windows that are not already iconified
    to be hidden. Any child windows that are already iconified remain
    iconified along with their parents. Restoring the parent window
    (triggered by a WINDOW-RESTORED event) causes all of its descendant
    windows to receive a WINDOW-RESTORED event, restoring them to their visual
    state prior to the parent window being minimized.
• When a window receives a WINDOW-MINIMIZED event, all of its
    descendant windows receive WINDOW-MINIMIZED events. When a window
    receives a WINDOW-RESTORED event, all of its descendant windows
    receive WINDOW-RESTORED events.
• Applying a WINDOW-CLOSE event to a window causes all of its
    descendant windows to receive a PARENT-WINDOW-CLOSE event. However,
    any ancestor windows remain unaffected.
 A WINDOW-MINIMIZED or WINDOW-RESTORED event applied to a child
  window has no effect on its parent or ancestor windows.
 Resizing or changing the position of a window has no affect
  on the size or position of any descendants or ancestors of that
  window.
 The following attributes have the Unknown value (?) until
  the window is realized:
• FULL-HEIGHT-CHARS attribute
• FULL-HEIGHT-PIXELS attribute
• FULL-WIDTH-CHARS attribute
• FULL-WIDTH-PIXELS attribute
 If you embed the window in an OpenEdge.NET form, by setting the form's EmbeddedWindow
  property to the ABL window handle, some attributes and methods of the window are either
  ignored or change function. For more information, see the EmbeddedWindow property reference entry.

See also

CREATE widget statement, DIALOG-BOX widget




