CREATE SAX-ATTRIBUTES statement

Creates an instance of a SAX-attributes object and assigns its handle to the handle variable specified. Use this object to access and manage the attribute list for an XML element either being read or written with the SAX-reader or SAX-writer object.

Syntax

handle: Variable of type HANDLE which stores the handle of the new SAX-attributes
    object.

IN WIDGET-POOL pool-name: Specifies the widget pool where the AVM creates the new object.
    If you do not specify a widget pool, the AVM creates the object
    in the current default widget pool.

NO-ERROR: The NO-ERROR option is used to prevent the
    statement from raising ERROR and displaying error messages.

In ABL, a SAX-attributes object can be automatically created and managed by
the SAX parser, or programatically created and managed by you. Automatic SAX-attributes
objects are created, populated, and destroyed during the scope of the startElement callback
procedure. The startElement callback is called by the SAX-reader object each time the SAX
parser encounters new XML element during a read operation. The SAX parser populates the
SAX-attributes object, but you may interact with the object during the scope of the
startElement callback procedure. For example, you may add elements, update elements, and
remove elements from the SAX-attributes object.

At the conclusion of the callback, the SAX-attributes object is deleted and
your access to the element list is lost. To save the XML attributes list, you would need to
create another SAX-attributes object that is not tied to the scope of the startElement
callback procedure. Then, from within the startElement callback, you would use the
COPY-SAX-ATTRIBUTES() method on the new object and provide a handle to the automatically
created SAX-attributes object.

Finally, you would likely pass the XML element and its attributes to a
SAX-writer object to concurrently build a new XML document while reading the source XML
document.

Example

The
following code snippets assembled form one complete example of a concurrent
XML read and write operation. The first snippet shows the main block
of code:

This snippet contains the callbacks for starting
and ending a document read. Note that embedded in the steps of the
read operation are the corresponding steps for a concurrent write
operation:

The startElement callback does most of the processing.
Depending on the values being read by SAX-reader, the callback decides
what to write to the new XML document:

The last snippet completes the set of callback
procedures needed for this example:

See also

NO-ERROR option,
SAX-attributes object handle




CREATE SAX-READER statement

Creates an instance of a SAX-reader object and assigns its handle to the handle variable you specify. The SAX-reader object can be used to control the parsing of XML source.

Syntax

handle: A variable of type HANDLE into which CREATE SAX-READER stores
    the new handle.

IN WIDGET-POOL pool-name: A CHARACTER expression indicating the widget pool in which the object
    is created. If you do not specify a widget pool, the object is created in
    the current default widget pool.

NO-ERROR: The NO-ERROR option is used to prevent the
    statement from raising ERROR and displaying error messages.

See also

NO-ERROR option,
SAX-reader object handle




CREATE SAX-WRITER statement

Creates an instance of a SAX-writer object and assigns its handle to the handle variable specified. Use this object to write an XML document using the SAX interface.

Syntax

handle: Variable of type HANDLE which stores the handle of the new SAX-writer
    object.

IN WIDGET-POOL pool-name: Specifies the widget pool where the AVM creates the new object.
    If you do not specify a widget pool, the AVM creates the object
    in the current default widget pool.

NO-ERROR: The NO-ERROR option is used to prevent the
    statement from raising ERROR and displaying error messages.

See also

NO-ERROR option, SAX-writer object handle




